It is God that we thank and it is God whose help and forgiveness we seek and whose name we uphold against our own evil and our wrongdoings. Whoever is guided by God cannot be misled and whoever misleads can find no guidance. I declare that there is no God but Allah and that Muhammad is his subject and messenger. "O ye who believe, fear God as he should be feared and die not except in a state of Islam," "O mankind, reverence your Guardian-Lord who created you from a single person, created, of like nature, his mate and from them twain scattered (like seeds) countless men and women; reverence God, through whom ye demand your mutual (rights) and (reverence) the wombs (that bore you) for God ever watches over you," "O ye who believe, fear God and (always) say a word directed to the right, that he may make your conduct whole and sound and forgive you your sins. He that obeys God and his apostle has already attained the highest achievement." [Koranic verses] Thank God who said: "And reform is my only aim and only God can grant me success. On him I depend and in him I believe." And thank God who said: "Ye are the best of peoples evolved for mankind, enjoining what is right, forbidding what is wrong, and believing in God." [Koranic verses] Prayers and peace be upon his Prophet who said: "People who see an unjust person and do nothing are about to be punished by God."

You are not unaware of the injustice, repression, and aggression that have befallen Muslims through the alliance of Jews, Christians, and their agents, so much so that Muslims' blood has become the cheapest blood and their money and wealth are plundered by the enemies. Your blood has been spilled in Palestine and Iraq. The image of that dreadful massacre in Qana, Lebanon, is still vivid in one's mind, and so are the massacres in Tajikistan, Burma, Kashmir, Assam, the Philippines, Fatani [as transliterated], Ogaden, Somalia, Eritrea, Chechnya, and Bosnia-Herzegovina where hair-raising and revolting massacres were committed before the eyes of the entire world clearly in accordance with a conspiracy by the United States and its allies who banned arms for the oppressed there under the cover of the unfair United Nations. That alerted Muslims to the fact that they are the main target of the Jewish-crusade alliance aggression, and all the false claims about human rights fell under the blows and massacres committed against Muslims everywhere.

The latest aggression was one of the worst catastrophes to befall the Muslims since the death of the Prophet, may God's prayers and blessings be upon him. It was the occupation of the land of the two holy mosques [Saudi Arabia], the cradle of Islam, the scene of the revelation, the source of the message, and the site of the holy Ka'bah, the qiblah [to which Muslims turn in prayer] of all Muslims, by Christian armies of the Americans and their allies. God is the source of all power. 

In the light of the reality we are going through and the blessed, sweeping awakening in the world at large and in the Islamic world in particular, I meet with you today after a long absence dictated by the unjust crusade campaign led by the United States against the ulema and advocates of Islam to prevent them from instigating the Islamic nation against its enemies, as did their predecessors, may God have mercy on their souls, such as Ibn-Taymiyah and al-'Izz Ibn-'Abd-al-Salam. And so, this Jewish-crusade alliance killed and detained the symbols of the truthful ulema and upholders of the call ó and God is above everyone. It killed the mujahid Shaykh 'Abdallah 'Azzam and detained the mujahid Shaykh Ahmad Yasin in the land from which the Prophet, may God's prayers and blessings be upon him, ascended to heaven, and the mujahid Shaykh 'Umar 'Abd-al Rahman in the United States. And, at the behest of the United States, a very large number of ulema, advocates of the call, and youth were arrested in the land of the two holy mosques. Prominent among them are Shaykh Salman al-'Awdah, Shaykh Safar al-Hawali, and their brother. Help comes from God who is the source of all power. We were affected by that injustice in that we were prevented from addressing Muslims and were pursued in Pakistan, Sudan, and Afghanistan. Hence that long absence, but, thanks be to God, a safe base was found in Khorasan [Afghanistan], on the soil of the Hindu Kush where, thanks be to God, the largest heretic power on earth was destroyed and where the superpower myth vanished in the face of the mujahidin's outcry of Allah Akbar [God is great]. Today, from the same land, from Afghanistan, we seek to end the injustice which has befallen the nation at the hands of the Jewish-crusade alliance, especially after the occupation of the land of the ascension of the Prophet [now Israel], may God's prayers and blessings be upon him, and the violation of the land of the two holy mosques. We beseech God to give us victory, for that is in his hands and he is capable of granting it.

Today we begin to talk, work, and discuss ways of rectifying what has befallen the Islamic world in general and the land of the two holy mosques in particular. We want to study the ways which could be used to rectify matters and restore rights to their owners as people have been subjected to grave danger and harm to their religion and their lives, people of all walks of life, civilians, military, security men, employees, merchants, people big and small, school and university students, and unemployed university graduates, in fact hundreds of thousands who constitute a broad sector of the society. 

The same thing has befallen the people in industry and in agriculture, the cities and villages, and the people in the desert and the rural areas. Everyone is complaining about almost everything. The situation in the land of the two holy mosques is like a gigantic volcano about to erupt and destroy heresy and corruption, whatever their source. The explosions of Riyadh and al-Khubar were only a small indication of that torrential flood resulting from the bitter suffering, repression, coercion, great injustice, disgraceful debauchery, and poverty.

People have been greatly preoccupied with matters of their livelihood. Talk of economic decline, high prices, massive debts, and overcrowded prisons is widespread and endless in society. Low-income employees will talk to you about their debts running to tens and hundreds of thousands of riyals. They complain about the massive and continuing drop in the purchasing power of the riyal in comparison with most other major currencies. Major traders and contractors will talk to you about the debts owed to them by the state running to hundreds of millions and even billions of riyals, increasing daily as a result of rates of usury. The state's internal debts to the public have reached more than 340 billion riyals, not to mention the foreign debts. People are wondering: Is ours really the largest oil exporting country?

They feel that God is tormenting them because they kept quiet about the regime's injustice and illegitimate actions, especially its failure to have recourse to the Shari'ah, its confiscation of people's legitimate rights, the opening of the land of the two holy mosques to the American occupiers, and the arbitrary jailing of the true ulema, heirs of the Prophets. Good people who specialize in matters of religion, such as propagators of Islam and ulema, as well as experts in earthly matters such as traders, economists, and dignitaries, became alert to that affliction and each group did its best to act quickly to remedy the situation. Everyone agrees that the country is moving towards a deep abyss and a terrible calamity the extent of which only God knows. As one major businessman said, "the king is leading the country to 60 calamities." God is the source of all help and power. Many princes share the public's concern and privately voice opposition to what is going on in the country in terms of terror, repression, and corruption. The rivalry between princes overseeing their own personal interests has ruined the country and the regime has destroyed its legitimacy with its own hands through many actions, the most important being:

1. Its suspension of the Islamic Shari'ah laws, replacing them with temporal laws, and its bloody confrontation with the truthful ulema and good youth ó and God is above everyone.

2. Its failure to protect the country, opening it to the nation's enemies, the American crusader forces who have become the main cause of all aspects of our plight, especially the economic aspect as a result of the unjustified heavy expenditure on them and as a result of the policies they impose on the country, and particularly the oil policy determining the quantities of oil to be produced and setting the prices which suit their own economic interests ignoring the country's economic interests, and also as a result of the exorbitant arms deals imposed on the regime, to the point that people are wondering what good, then, is the regime?

3. So, each group has made efforts to act quickly and evade the danger. They offered advice secretly and openly, in verse and in prose, singly and in groups, and they sent petition after petition and memorandum after memorandum. They left no stone unturned and there was no influential person they did not include in their reformist moves. In their writings they applied the gentle and lenient method of wisdom and good advice calling for reform and penance for the major wrongdoings and corruption that transgressed the categorical religious limits and the public's legitimate rights.

Most regrettably, however, the only response they got from the regime was rejection, disregard, and ridicule. The matter did not stop at the point of just humiliating them but that was followed by greater and greater misdeeds throughout the land of the two holy mosques.

Therefore, silence was no longer appropriate and overlooking the facts was no longer acceptable. 

When the excesses intensified and went beyond the limits of simple wrongdoings and misdeeds to violation of the clear basis of Islam, a group of ulema and religious preachers grew tired of the deafening sound of misguidance and injustice and the suffocating smell of corruption. So signs of rejection appeared and voices were raised calling for reform to remedy the situation and stop the rot. They were joined by hundreds of intellectuals, dignitaries, merchants, and former officials. They submitted petitions and memoranda to the king urging reform. In the Hegira year of 1411 during the Gulf war, a petition signed by about 400 figures was submitted to the king calling for rectification of the situation in the country and for an end to the injustice to the public, but he ignored the advice and ridiculed those who offered it, and the situation got worse.

Those who had offered the advice then sent more memoranda and petitions, the most important being the advice memorandum handed to the king in the month of Muharram 1413 Hegira [roughly 1992] which diagnosed the disease and prescribed the medicine with a sound Shari'ah approach and in a sound scientific way. It dwelt on the major gaps in the regime's philosophy and the main anomalies in the regime's foundations, pointing to the suffering of society's symbols and leaders calling for reform, such as the ulema, religious protagonists, tribal shaykhs, merchants, dignitaries, and university professors, who were marginalized, neutralized, and even pursued and harassed. 

It also dwelt on the country's laws and regulations and what they allowed and disallowed against God's will. It discussed the state of the media in the country which became means for the advancement of individuals and relatives and for obliterating facts, falsifying the truth, defaming righteous people, and shedding crocodile tears for the nation's causes to mislead people without any serious action and to implement the enemies' plans to corrupt people, draw them away from their religion, and spread sin among the believers. "Those who love (to see) scandal published and broadcast among the believers will have a grievous penalty in this life and in the hereafter. God knows and ye know not" [Koranic verse].

It [the advice memorandum] discussed the people's violated legitimate rights and the administrative situation with all its inefficiency and corruption.

It pointed to the state's financial and economic situation and the terrible and frightful fate in store as a result of the debts of usury which have broken the state's back, and to the waste which has squandered the nation's wealth to satisfy personal wealth, resulting in taxes, duties, and excises imposed on the public. The Prophet, may God's prayers and blessings be upon him, said about the woman who sinned, repented, and was dealt with accordingly: "She repented and if one who imposes taxes repented in the same way he would be forgiven." That reflects the magnitude of the sin of the tax man, but some are publicly and over loudspeakers applauding him and his massive and permitted usury, but that is heresy. Reliance is on God who is the source of all power.

It exposed the despicable state of the social utilities in the country, which became even worse after the memorandum, and especially the water services, the most important element of livelihood.

It discussed the state of the Army whose small numbers, poor training, and inefficient command were exposed by the Gulf crisis, despite the astronomical and unreasonable figures which had been mentioned and could not remain a secret.

On justice and the courts, the memorandum showed that numerous Shari'ah laws had been suspended and replaced with temporal laws.

On the state's foreign policy, the memorandum exposed that policy's failures and disregard for Muslim causes and even support and backing for the enemies. The (Gaza- Jericho) [agreement] and the case of the communists in southern Yemen are not too distant examples, and there are many others.

Upholding temporal laws and supporting heretics against Muslims are prohibited in Islam, as the ulema have ruled. God said "whoever does not rule by God's law is a heretic," and He said: "But no, by the Lord, they can have no (real) faith until they make thee judge in all disputes between them, and find in their souls no resistance against thy decisions, but accept them with the fullest conviction" [Koranic verses].

Although the memorandum submitted all that leniently and gently, as a reminder of God and as good advice in a gentle, objective, and sincere way, despite the importance and necessity of advice for rulers in Islam, and despite the number and positions of the signatories of the memorandum and their sympathizers, it was of no avail. Its contents were rejected and its signatories and sympathizers were humiliated, punished, and imprisoned.

The preachers' and reformers' eagerness to pursue peaceful reform methods in the interest of the country's unity and to prevent bloodshed was clearly demonstrated. So why should the regime block all means of peaceful reform and drive the people toward armed action? That was the only door left open to the public for ending injustice and upholding right and justice, and in whose interests do Prince Sultan and Prince Nayif plunge the country and the people into an internal war that would destroy everything, enlisting the aid and advice of those who fomented internal sedition in their country and using the people's police force to put down the reform movement there and pit members of the public one against the otheróleaving the main enemy in the region, namely the Jewish-American alliance, safe and secure, having found such traitors to implement its policies aimed at exhausting the nation's human and financial resources internally.

The person whom Interior Minister Prince Nayif is consulting [not further identified] was not tolerated in his own country because of his extreme dirt and affront to his people. He was dismissed from his post but came to be received by Prince Nayif with open arms, for cooperation on sin and aggression. He filled the prisons with the nation's best sons, bringing tears to the eyes of the mothers whose sons were jailed unfairly. Does the regime want to pit the public, civilians and military, against one another as was the case in some neighboring countries? I have no doubt that that is the policy of the Israeli-American enemy alliance, the main beneficiary of all that. But, thank God, the vast majority of the people, civilians and military, are aware of that sinister plan and will not allow themselves to be an instrument for strikes against one another in implementation of the policy of the main enemy, namely the Israeli-American alliance, through the Saudi regime, its agent in the country.

That is why everyone agrees that "a crooked stick cannot have a straight shadow" and that there must be concentration on hitting the main enemy who has thrust the nation into whirlpools and labyrinths for decades since dividing it into states and statelets. Whenever a reform movement appears in the Islamic states, that Jewish-crusade alliance pushes its agents in the region, the rulers, to exhaust and abort such a reform movement by various suitable means, sometimes aborting it by luring it to armed confrontation, for which it chooses the time and place and through which it would nip it in the bud.

Sometimes he would set loose his men in the Interior Ministry, who had graduated from Shari'ah colleges, to confuse and undermine the reform march and to draw the nation and the people away from that march, sometimes luring some righteous men to enter into a war of words with the ulema and the symbols of the reform movement to exhaust everyone's energy and keep the great heresy in control of the nation, misleading it and continuing the peripheral discussions while the worship of God and adherence to his Shari'ah are absent in reality. In these discussions and responses right and wrong get mixed up and often lead to personal enmities, with some people taking sides, thereby further dividing and weakening the nation, so that Islamic action priorities disappear. One should beware of these and similar diabolical tricks by the Interior Ministry. The appropriate behavior in such cases is what has been advised by the ulema, such as what the late Shaykh al-Islam Ibn-Taymiyah said, namely that all Muslims should join hands in warding off the great heresy controlling the Islamic world while sustaining minimum damage to prevent the greater damage which is in the fact the great heresy. When duties are numerous the most important takes priority. It is no secret that warding off that American enemy is the top duty after faith, and nothing should take priority over it, as decreed by the ulema. Shaykh al-Islam Ibn-Taymiyah said: "Fighting in self-defense is the strongest way of warding off harm to honor and religion, and it is a collective duty. Warding off an enemy who corrupts religion and the world is a top duty after faith. It is unconditional and is done according to means." If warding off that aggressive enemy becomes impossible without all Muslims of all walks and ranks getting together, then that is their duty and they should in that case overlook some disputed issues. Overlooking such disputes at this stage is less harmful than continuation of the great heresy afflicting the countries of the Muslims. That is why Shaykh al-Islami, explaining that matter, pointed out a main and great principle which should be taken into account, which is that work should concentrate on warding off the greater of the two evils. Referring to the state of the mujahidin and Muslims, he said that if among them there happened to be very sinful soldiers, that would not justify abandoning the jihad against the aggressive enemy.

After discussing the case of the Tatars and their change of God's laws, he, may God have mercy on his soul, said that "agreement on fighting them fully would please God, uphold his word, and establish his religion and obedience to his Prophet. If some among them [Muslims] happen to be sinful and ill intentioned, fighting for leadership or offending others on some matters, and if the religious harm of not fighting them is greater than the harm of fighting them, then the duty is to fight them to ward off the greater harm. That is why one of the principles of the Sunnah and the [Prophet's] group is to do conquest using every good as well as sinful person, for God supports this in the interest of the cause of religion because, as the Prophet, may God's prayers and blessings be upon him, said, if conquest can only be achieved with the help of sinful princes or very sinful soldiers, then one of two things must be done: Either abandon the conquest with their cooperation, which means the greater harm of others taking over, or proceed with the conquest along with the sinful princes, and that way the greater harm is avoided and most of the rules of Islam are established, if not all. That would be the duty in that case and in all similar cases. In fact many of the conquests which took place after the orthodox caliphs took place in that way."

What is necessary in such a case is that everyone should do his best to incite and mobilize the nation against the aggressive enemy and the great heresy prevailing in the country and corrupting religion and life. There is no greater duty after faith than warding [daf'] off [that enemy], namely the Israeli-American alliance occupying the land of the two holy mosques and the land of the ascension of the Prophet, may God's prayers and blessings be upon him. The Muslims are reminded that they should avoid infighting between sons of the Muslim nation because that will have dire consequences, the most important being:

1. Exhaustion of human resources "as most of the casualties and victims would be from the Muslim people."

2. Exhaustion of financial resources.

3. Destruction of the state's infrastructure.

4. Disintegration of society.

5. Destruction of the oil industries, because the presence of the crusader and American military forces in the Islamic Gulf states, on land, in the air, and at sea, represents the greatest danger and harm and the greatest threat to the largest oil reserves in the world. That presence is a provocation to the people and an affront to their religion, feelings, and dignity, and has driven them toward armed struggle against the occupying invaders. A spread of fighting in these areas would carry the danger of the oil burning which would be detrimental to the economic interests of the Gulf states and the land of the two holy mosques, and in fact to the world economy. Here we pause and urge our brothers the people, the mujahidin, to preserve that wealth and not to involve it in the battle because it is a great Islamic wealth and a great and important economic power for the coming Islamic state, God willing. We also firmly warn the aggressive United States against burning that Islamic wealth at the end of the war for fear of it falling into the hands of its legitimate owners and to harm its economic rivals in Europe and the Far East, especially Japan, which is considered the main consumer of the region's oil.

6. Partition of the country of the two holy mosques with Israel taking the northern part Partition of the land of the two holy mosques is considered to be an urgent demand of the Jewish-crusade alliance, because the existence of a state of such size and with such resources under sound Islamic rule, which, God willing, is coming, would be a threat to the Jewish entity in Palestine, for the land of the two holy mosques would be a symbol for the unity of the Islamic world because of the presence of the holy Ka'bah, the qiblah of all Muslims.

Furthermore, the land of the two holy mosques is an important economic power in the Islamic world because it has the largest oil reserves in the world. Furthermore, the people of the two holy mosques are linked to the history of their predecessors, the Prophet's companions, whom they see as the example to follow and the ideal to uphold in restoring the nation's glory and upholding the will of God. That is in addition to the strategic depth and extended manpower fighting for God in happy Yemen. As the Prophet, may God's prayers and blessings be upon him, said, "and from Aden and Abyan would come 12,000 who would support God and his Prophet, and they are among the best of us." That would constitute a threat to the presence of the Jewish-crusade alliance in the region.

7. Any infighting under whatever pretext while the American occupation forces are still present would be a grave danger because these forces would seek to settle the battle in favor of world heresy.

Our brothers in the Armed Forces, National Security, and security forces, may God preserve you as defenders of Islam and Muslim:

O protectors of monotheism and guardians of the faith; O successors of those who spread the light of guidance in the world; O grandsons of Sa'd Bin-Abi-Waqqas, al-Muthanna Bin-Harithah al-Shibani, al-Qa'qa' Bin-'Amr al-Tamimi, and the companions who fought alongside them: You rushed to join the Army and the Guard merely to join the jihad for the cause of God in order to spread the word of God and to defend Islam and the land of the two holy mosques against invaders and occupiers, which is the highest degree of belief in religion. But the regime disrupted the balances, distorted the concepts, humiliated the nation, and disobeyed the nation. Although the nation still has not recovered its first qiblah and the point of the Prophet's midnight journey to the seven heavens [al-Aqsa Mosque] despite the promises made by the rulers over half a century to work to recover it, but instead, the al-Aqsa Mosque has been handed to the Jews, and the nation's wounds are still bleeding ó despite all this, the Saudi regime shocked the nation by bringing the women of Christian armies to defend it and opening the country of the two holy mosques to the crusaders. There is nothing strange about that, since the [Saudi] king has been decorated by a cross. The regime opened the country which is now full of the armies of the United States and its allies. Because the regime is impotent without their help. You ó better than anyone else ó are aware of this presence, its scale, aims, and danger. So the regime has betrayed the nation and allied with and supported the infidels against Muslims. As is known, this is one of the contradictions in Islam. By opening the Arabian Peninsula to the crusaders, the regime has violated the Prophet's will to his nation before his death: "Move the atheists out of the Arabian Peninsula." He also said: "If I live, God willing, I will move the Jews and the Christians out of the Arabian Peninsula."

The claim that the crusaders' presence in the land of the two holy mosques is a necessity and a temporary matter aimed at defending this land is an old and obsolete story, especially after the brutal destruction of Iraq and its military and civilian infrastructures. This claim reflects the scale of the crusaders' and Jews' spite toward Muslims and their children. And the regime also insisted on not replacing the crusader forces with Islamic forces from among the country's sons and elsewhere. Besides, this claim is no longer valid following the statements made by the leaders of atheism in the United States, the most recent being that of US Defense Secretary William Perry after the al-Khubar blast targeting US troops. He said that their presence in the land of the two holy mosques is aimed at protecting US interests. Shaykh Safar al-Hawali ó may God help him ó wrote a 70-page book in which he listed evidence and proofs that the US presence in the Arabian Peninsula is a pre-planned military occupation. The claim is another trick by the regime, but it will not fool Muslims as its first trick fooled the Palestinian mujahidin. The first trick resulted in the al-Aqsa Mosque being lost. When the Muslim people in Palestine rose up in their great jihad against the British occupation in 1354 H, corresponding to 1936, Britain failed to stop the mujahidin or their jihad. Their devil inspired them that the armed jihad in Palestine can only be stopped through their agent, King 'Abd-al-'Aziz, who they believed was capable of deceiving the mujahidin. And indeed King 'Abd-al-'Aziz carried out his mission by sending his two sons to meet with mujahidin leaders in Palestine and inform him of King 'Abd-al-'Aziz' pledge to guarantee the British Government's promises that it would withdraw and meet their demands if they halted the jihad. So King 'Abd-al-'Aziz was behind the loss of the Muslims' first qiblah. He allied himself with the Christians against Muslims. And he abandoned the mujahidin, instead of espousing the al-Aqsa Mosque issue and supporting those struggling for the sake of God's cause. And here is his son, King Fahd, trying to fool Muslims with the second trick in order to squander our remaining holy sites. He lied to the ulema who sanctioned the Americans' entry and he lied to the Islamic world's ulema and leaders at the [World Muslim] League's conference in holy Mecca in the wake of the Islamic world's condemnation of the crusader forces' entry into the country of the two holy mosques on the pretext of defending it. He told them that the matter was simple and that the US and coalition troops would leave in a few months. And here we are approaching the seventh year since their arrival and the regime is unable to move them out. The regime does not want to admit to its people its inability to do so. It has continued to lie to people and claim that the Americans will depart...which is impossible. Once bitten, twice shy. The happy ones are those who learn from others' experiences.

Instead of pushing the Army, the Guard, and the security men to confront the occupiers, the regime is using them to protect the occupiers, which is the highest degree of humiliation, insult, and treason. May God give us strength. We remind the minority of people in the Army, police, Guard, and security forces, who are being humiliated by the regime to get them to encroach on Muslims' rights and lives, of Almighty God's words in the divine hadith: "I declare war on those who are hostile toward holy men." And also of the Prophet's saying: "A man will come holding the hand of another, saying: O God, this man killed me [talking about the Day of Judgment], so God will say to him: Why did you kill him? He will reply: I killed him so that glory would be yours. God will say: It is mine. Another man will come holding another's hand and saying: O God, this man killed me. God will say to him: Why did you kill him? He will say: To achieve glory for such and such. God will tell him: It [glory] does not belong to such and such; he will be punished for his sins." The Prophet is also reported to have said: "The murdered will come on the Day of Judgment, clinging to his murderer. So God will say: Why did you kill him? He will say: To appease such and such."

Your brothers and sons, the sons of the two holy mosques, have launched the jihad for the sake of God's cause to expel the occupying enemy from the country of the two holy mosques. Without doubt you wish to carry out this mission in order to restore the nation's glory and liberate its occupied holy sites. But you are aware that this stage requires the adoption of suitable combat methods due to the lack of parity between our regular Armed Forces and the enemy's forces. Namely, through light and fast [khafifah wa sari'at alharakah] forces operating in complete secrecy. In other words, by waging guerrilla warfare in which the people's sons other than the Armed Forces take part. As is known, it is wise at this stage to spare the Armed Forces the task of engaging in traditional fighting with the crusader enemy's forces. This is with the exception of daring and powerful operations carried out separately by individuals from the Armed Forces, that is, without mobilizing regular forces with their traditional formations, and in a manner that would not reflect adversely on the Army, unless there are great interests to be gained and heavy losses to inflicted on the enemy ó losses that destroy its foundations and rock its Pillars ó losses that help to expel the enemy, routed ó ensuring that no Muslim blood is shed in the process.

What your mujahidin brothers and sons want from you at this stage is to provide every possible support: information and the materials and arms needed for their work. And they want the security men ó in particular ó to turn a blind eye and deceive the enemy about their whereabouts, spread false rumors among its ranks, and do whatever is viable to help the mujahidin against the occupying enemy.

We alert you to the fact that the regime might carry out operations against members of the Armed Forces, Guard, or security forces and try to attribute them to the mujahidin with a view to driving a wedge between them and you. So the regime should be denied that opportunity.

While we know that the regime is fully responsible for what has afflicted the country and the people, the main disease and the cause of the affliction is the occupying US enemy. So efforts should be pooled to kill him, fight him, destroy him. We should lie in wait for him until he is defeated, God willing. The time will come, God willing, for you to play your role in settling the situation in order to exalt the word of God to the heights, humble the unbelievers' word to the depths, hit the aggressors with an iron fist, put matters right, and perform your true Islamic duty. We will have a separate discussion about these issues, God willing.

Muslim brothers everywhere, the Arabian Peninsula in particular:

The money paid for US goods is turning into bullets [fired at] the chests of our brothers in Palestine, and tomorrow the chests of the sons of the country of the two holy mosques; by buying their goods we are strengthening their economy while we continue to become poorer.

Muslim brothers in the country of the two holy mosques:

Is it reasonable for our country to be the biggest importer of US arms in the world, a trade partner of the Americans in the region ó the Americans who are occupying the country of the two holy mosques and supporting their Jewish brothers with money, arms, and men to occupy Palestine and kill and displace Muslims there?!!

Denying these aggressors the huge profits they make from their trade with us would be a very important help in the jihad against them. It would be tantamount to moral support to reflect our anger and hatred toward them. By doing that we will have contributed to ridding our holy sites of the Jews and Christians and forced them to leave our land, defeated, God willing.

We expect women in the country of the two holy mosques and elsewhere to play their role by boycotting US goods.

If the economic boycott is coupled with the mujahidin's military strikes, then the enemy's defeat is imminent, God willing ó and vice versa: If the Muslims do not cooperate with and support their mujahidin brothers by severing economic dealings with the US enemy, then they are paying him money, which is the foundation of wars and armies, hence prolonging the war and the Muslims' suffering from it.

Security and intelligence services in the world cannot force a citizen to purchase his enemies' goods.

The economic boycott of the US enemy's goods is an extremely effective weapon, in order to weaken and harm the enemy. Nevertheless, this weapon does fall under the supervision of the repressive organs.

Before concluding, we have an important, very important, discussion with young Muslims, the men of the bright future of Muhammad's nation. Our discussion with the young men is about their duty at this difficult stage in the history of our nation ó the stage in which no one except the young men ó may God protect themóhave performed their duty in all directions. After those who hesitated to perform their duty to defend Islam and rescue themselves and property from the oppression, repression, and terrorism exercised by the state, the young men, may God protect them, moved forward to raise the banner of the jihad against the US-Jewish alliance which occupied Islamic holy sites, while others, as a result of the state's terrorism, moved forward to grant legitimacy to this great treason and big disaster: the occupation of the country of the two holy mosques. May God give us strength. The is nothing strange about this: Muhammad's companions were young men. And the young men of today are the successor of the early ones. It was the young men who killed this nation's tyrant, Abu-Jahl.

'Abd-al-Rahman Bin-'Awf, may God be pleased with him, said: A young man told me: I heard that Abu-Jahl insulted the Prophet, peace be upon him. A companion [of Muhammad] said: I swear by God that if I see him I will fight with him until the strongest wins.

God is great. This is how the young companions behaved. Two young men asking one another about the most important target among the enemy's ranks, namely to kill the tyrant of this nation and the leader of the atheists in Badr, namely Abu-Jahl. 'Abd-al-Rahman Bin-'Awf's role was to tell them about Abu-Jahl's whereabouts. This is the role required from those who have knowledge and experience about the enemy's most vulnerable spots. They are required to guide their sons and brothers to these spots. Then the young men will say what their predecessors said: "By God, if I see him, I will fight with him until the strongest wins."

'Abd-al-Rahman Bin-'Awf's story about Umayyah Bin-Khalaf reflects the extent of Bilal's insistence on killing the head of atheism. He said "The head of atheism is Umayyah Bin-Khalaf ó no life for me if he survives."

A few days ago news agencies carried a statement by the occupier-crusader, the US defense secretary, in which he said that he has learned one lesson from the Riyadh and al-Khubar blasts, namely not to retreat in front of the terrorist cowards.

We tell the defense secretary that this talk makes people laugh and reflects the scale of your fears. Where was that false courage in Beirut after the bombings of 1403H, corresponding to 1983, which dismembered you by killing 241 soldiers, most of them from the Marines? Where was that false courage in Aden following two bombing incidents which caused you to depart in less than 24 hours?

But your great scandal was in Somalia. After several months of media propaganda about the United States' might after the Cold War and its leadership of the new world order, you poured tens of thousands of international troops, including 28,000 Americans, into Somalia.

However, after minor battles in which scores of your troops were killed and a US pilot's body was dragged through the streets of Mogadishu, you left the country, defeated and carrying your dead. Clinton emerged before the world, threatening to take revenge. But the threat was a prelude to the withdrawal process. God shamed you and you had to pull out. Your impotence and weakness were evident. The picture of you being defeated in the three Islamic cities (Beirut, Aden, and Mogadishu) pleased every Muslim and believer.

I say: If the sons of the country of the two holy mosques ó who went to fight the Russians in Afghanistan, the Serbs in Bosnia-Herzegovina, and who are now fighting in Chechnya, and God has granted them victory over the Russians, who are allying with you ó and they are also fighting in Tajikistan ó believe in the need to fight against atheism everywhere, they have the strength and enthusiasm in the land in which they were born to defend their greatest holy sites, the holy Ka'bah, the qiblah of all Muslims. They also know that Muslims in the world [a portion of the text is missing at this point; if pagination of fax copy is correct, this suggests two pages, approximately 1,600 words, are missing. Text resumes by citing parts of a poem]. The Jerusalem wound is painful in my body, it is like fire inside me; I have never betrayed God, but states have.

And their grandfather 'Asim Bin-Thabit said when the atheists requested him to negotiate and not to fight: What do I have to lose ó I am already too old; death is truth and life is falsehood ó if I do not fight you, then I am foolish.

Young men believe you [apparently still addressing the United States] are responsible for what your Jewish brothers are doing in Palestine and Lebanon, namely killing and making Muslims homeless and violating their rights. You are openly supplying them with money and weapons.

And more than 600,000 children have died in Iraq as a result of the shortages of food and medicines caused by your unjust embargo on Iraq, whose children are ours. So you and the Saudi regime are held responsible for the blood of those innocent people. All this causes us to revoke any treaty ['ahd] between us, as the Prophet, peace be upon him, considered the al-Hudaybiyah peace null and void after Quraysh helped Bani Bakr against the Prophet's allies. So he fought against Quraysh and opened Mecca. And he considered the agreement with Bani Qaynaqa' null and void because a Jew from among them harmed a woman in a marketplace. But you killed hundreds of thousands of Muslims and encroached on their holy sites. It is now clear that those claiming that the blood of the soldiers of the US enemy, who is occupying a Muslim country, is protected, are repeating ó under compulsion ó what is dictated by the regime, for fear of its oppression and in order to be on the safe side. It is incumbent on every tribe in the Arabian Peninsula to fight for God's cause and purge their territory of these occupiers. God says that it is permissible to shed their blood and seize their property, and anyone who kills a person, the booty is his. Almighty God said: "But when the forbidden months are past, then fight and slay the pagans wherever ye find them, and seize them, beleaguer them, and lie in wait for them...." Young men know that the humiliation inflicted on Muslims through the occupation of their holy sites can only be eliminated through the jihad and explosives. They repeat the poet's words: Humiliation can only be eliminated through bullets and the shedding of blood.

I tell the young men of the Islamic world who fought in Afghanistan and Bosnia-Herzegovina with their money, lives, tongues, and pens that the battles has not ended yet. I remind them of Gabriel's discussion with the messenger of God after the al-Ahzab battle: When the messenger of God arrived in Medina, he put his weapon aside. Gabriel came up to him and said: Have you laid down your weapon? By God, the angels have not yet laid down their weapons. So move with those who are with you to Bani Qurayzah, as I will be moving in front of you, rocking their fortifications and striking terror in their hearts. So Gabriel joined a procession of angels with the Prophet behind them, joined by emigrants and supporters.

Young men know that those who are not killed are going to die [one day], and that the most honorable way to die is to die for the sake of God's cause. They repeat the saying of their grandfather, the companion 'Abdallah Bin-Rawahah, especially after the murder of the four heroes who blew up the Americans in Riyadh ó these young men have restored daring operation: If not killed, one will die one day anyhowóhere is the fire of death blazingóif you engage in it, you will be rightly guided.

Ja'far said: Paradise is approaching beautiful and its drink is cold; the Romans are approaching their own suffering ó I promise I will fight them if I come face to face with them.

As regards our mothers, sisters, women, and daughters, they follow the example of the honorable women of the Prophet's companions after the Prophet himself, may God's prayers and blessings be upon him, and they emulate their bravery, courage, and generosity in support of God's religion. They remember the courage and steadfastness of Fatimah Bint-al-Khattab, may God's blessings be upon her, when, in support of what was right, she stood up to her own brother 'Umar Ibn-al-Khattab before he adopted Islam and challenged him after he learned of her becoming a Muslim. She said to him: "Do you not see that right is not in your religion, 'Umar?" And they remember the stand of Asma Bint-Abi-Bakr on the day of the migration [the Prophet's migration to Medina] when she cut her belt in two and used one to tie the travel bag of the Prophet, may God's prayers and blessings be upon him, and [one to tie the bag of] Abu-Bakr which they took with them on their journey to Medina, for which she was called the lady of the two belts. They also remember the stand taken by Nusaybah Bint-Ka'b in defense of the Prophet, may God's prayers and blessings be upon him, one day, sustaining 12 wounds in the process, one of them a deep wound in her neck. They remember the sacrifices of the women of the [Prophet's] companions who sold their jewellery to arm the Muslim invading forces for God's cause. Our women in this era have set magnificent examples in sacrifice for God and in urging their sons, brothers, and husbands to declare jihad for God, in Afghanistan, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Chechnya, and other places. We beseech God to accept their sacrifices and to release their sons, fathers, husbands, and brothers, and to consolidate their faith and strengthen their steps on that road of sacrifice so that God's will may prevail.

Our women only eulogize and sing the praises of the men fighting for God, as the following poem says: Extol only the lions who are brave in raging wars, let me die an honored death in war for glory in death is better than life itself. 

They urge their brothers to go to jihad for God, as the following poem says: Be ready for struggle for this is a serious matter. Would you abandon us with all these wolves of heresy biting at our wings, wolves who continue to promote evil everywhere? Who among the freemen of my religion will defend freedom with arms? Death is better than life in humiliation and shame.

Brother Muslims worldwide:

Your brothers in the land of the two holy mosques and Palestine seek your help and ask you to participate with them in their jihad against their enemies and yours, the Israelis and the Americans, with everything that would drive them out of the Islamic holy places, defeated, with each of you doing what he can. "And if they seek your support in religion, then you must give it." [Koranic verse] So mount your horse for God's cause. This is the time to be firm, so be firm and know that your unity and cooperation for the liberation of the Islamic holy places is a sound step toward the unification of the nation's ranks under the banner of the one God.

Here in this position we cannot but pray and ask Almighty God to show us the way and grant us success in all that. The genuine ulema of Islam and the nation's good youth are in captivity, so, God, please release them, give them strength, and look after their people. O God, the people of the cross have come with their horses and men and have violated the land of the two holy mosques, and the Jews are wreaking corruption in the al-Aqsa Mosque, the site of the Prophet's ascension to heaven. O God, divide them and break them apart and give us strength over them, shake the earth under their feet. O God, help us defeat them and protect us from their evil. O God, show us to be lions in their eyes and perform your miracles. O God who revealed the Koran, moved clouds, and defeated factions, O God, defeat them and grant us victory over them. You are our strength and our support, with you we move and fight, O God you are the best protector. O God, those youth have come together in support of your religion and your banner, so give them your support and bless their hearts. O God, strengthen the youth of Islam, guide their steps, and strike amity into the hearts of Muslims and unite their ranks, and give us patience and steadfastness and grant us victory against the heretics. Do not hold anything against us, as was the case with others in the past, and do not give us a load in excess of what we can bear. Pardon us, forgive us, and have mercy on us, our lord, and give us triumph over the heretics.

O God, give this nation guidance, honoring those who obey you and disgracing those who disobey you, and let good be promoted and evil shunned. O God, bless your subject and messenger Muhammad, his kin, and his companions, and give them great peace.

Finally we thank God, the lord of the universe.
