Sons and daughters of Islam! Assalam-o-Alaikum [Greeting]. You are well aware of the problems being faced by the Muslim world at present. In this context, I want to make some requests to you. All the movements and efforts presently taking place from different platforms for the dominance of Islam are individually respectable. Whichever movement you are associated with is a source of blessing for us. However, today the Muslim nation needs a collective and strong target so that every member of the Muslim nation enters the practical field to fulfill the promise made to God Almighty on the pattern of the example set by Prophet Ibrahim. Today, the roles of Pharaoh, Caesar, and Chosroes have been taken up by Israel and United States, who first occupied our Aqsa Mosque, in the direction of which our Holy Prophet performed his prayers. And now these so-called powers are eying the Holy Kaaba and the Nabvi Mosque. Only seventy kilometers from the Holy Kaaba, they are ready to implement this ugly conspiracy. You are successors of Khalid Bin Waleed and Tariq Bin Ziad. You are the beloved people of Ali [Holy Prophet's cousin and son-in-law]. You are the nation of the Prophet who prayed for us every night. Today, every member of the Muslim world agrees that all the Muslim countries of the world having geographical boundaries on the basis of nationality, geography, religious discord, color and race, should be merged into one Muslim state, where men do not rule men. There should be one caliph for the whole state whose capital should be Mecca. There should be one currency and defense for this state and the Holy Koran should be its constitution. The name that has been proposed for this vast state is Global Muslim State. I want to congratulate you that by the grace of God, from today, we have begun the task of achieving a highly important and strong target of domination of Islam over all other religions. No matter which movement or organization you belong to, you should propagate this message from your respective platforms in such a way that it becomes a voice of the two billion Muslims, so that practical steps might be taken as soon as possible. Sons and daughters of Islam! The countdown has started. You have the agenda in front of you and God has given a destination within your reach. The struggle initiated by the heroes of Karbala is about to reach its logical end in the coming few years. The hero of Badr War [war fought between Muslims and infidels in the era of the Holy Prophet] will emerge successful from the disaster of 1,400 years, God willing. Muslims! Rise up like a storm and destroy the devilish powers. May God help us all. Amen, a servant of Islam, Usama Bin Ladin."
