Enemies of the people: Fury over 'out of touch' judges who have 'declared war on democracy' by defying 17.4m Brexit voters and who could trigger constitutional crisis 
Judges ruled Brexit could not be triggered without a Westminster vote
The Lord Chief Justice and two colleagues were branded 'out of touch'
They were accused of putting Britain on course for a 'constitutional crisis' 

MPs last night tore into three 'out of touch' judges for ruling that embittered Remainers in Parliament should be allowed to frustrate the verdict of the British public.

The Lord Chief Justice and two senior colleagues were accused of putting Britain on course for a full-blown 'constitutional crisis' by saying Brexit could not be triggered without a Westminster vote.

The judgment by Lord Thomas – a founding member of the European Law Institute, a club of lawyers and academics aiming to 'improve' EU law – throws into chaos Mrs May's timetable for invoking Article 50 in March next year. 

Senior MPs – led by an ex-justice minister – said it was an outrage that an 'unholy alliance' of judges and embittered Remain backers could thwart the wishes of 17.4million Leave voters. 

They warned that Mrs May could be forced to hold an election early next year if the courts did not back down. Leave campaigners said the judges had 'declared war on democracy'. On an 'declared war on democracy'. 

Brexit Secretary David Davis warned judges and MPs not to defy the will of the British public 
Gloating Remainers took to social media to boast about a victory for 'democracy';
MPs predicted the chaos could delay Brexit by up to a year;
Judges left the door open to the taxpayer being saddled with a hefty legal bill for costs;
A group of pro-Remain Tory and Labour MPs met to plot how the ruling could be used to force Mrs May to reveal more about her broad negotiating aims;
Scotland's first minister Nicola Sturgeon threatened to join the legal action in her own bid to frustrate Brexit;
Brexiteers pointed out that a £9million taxpayer-funded leaflet sent to every home clearly stated that the referendum result would be followed directly by ministers;
Bookmakers shortened the odds on a 2017 general election to 2/1.

The row exploded yesterday morning when a panel led by the Lord Chief Justice, Lord Thomas, ruled that Mrs May cannot trigger Article 50 – the formal two-year process for leaving the EU – without a vote by Parliament.

This is despite a clear commitment by the Government during the referendum to enact the public's verdict without delay. A furious Number Ten vowed to challenge the 'disappointing' decision in the Supreme Court next month.

Supreme court judges were left in no doubt what was at stake. Mr Davis said that – if yesterday's verdict was upheld – a full Act of Parliament would be required to trigger Brexit.

This would allow MPs or peers to table amendments that would allow them to dictate the terms of Brexit or even halt the process altogether. Mr Davis said heading down this path would be a huge mistake.

The outpouring of rage against the High Court's shocking 'judicial activism' was so strong at Westminster that there were calls for a review of the way senior judges are appointed.

Whitehall sources also revealed that the judges gave the Government barely an hour's notice of their bombshell verdict. Usually, ministers can expect an overnight warning.

Insiders said Mrs May and the ministers in charge of Brexit had all been enraged. They now hope the Supreme Court will see sense. It will hear Mrs May's appeal from December 7 – with a verdict highly unlikely before Christmas.

Ex-attorney general Dominic Grieve – a leading Remain campaigner – claimed this could delay her pledge to start the two-year process for quitting the EU in March 2017. One minister claimed the delay could take up to a year. The High Court's verdict hinged on an interpretation of British constitutional law. Government lawyers said that, in the wake of the June 23 referendum result, Mrs May had prerogative powers to trigger Article 50 without a vote by MPs.

But the panel of judges yesterday declared: 'The Government does not have power under the Crown's prerogative to give notice pursuant to Article 50 for the UK to withdraw from the European Union.'

hey added that triggering Article 50 would fundamentally change UK people's rights – and that the Government cannot change or do away with rights under UK law unless Parliament gives it authority to do so.

Condemnation of the verdict – which few had expected – was swift and devastating. MPs pointed out that it had been brought by embittered Remainers and a wealthy fund manager, who had formed an 'unholy alliance' with the judiciary.

If the Government's appeal is not successful, an Act of Parliament will be required to trigger Article 50. This would allow MPs or the unelected House of Lords to put down amendments delaying Article 50, insisting Britain must stay in the single market, or block its passage altogether.

Ex-justice minister Dominic Raab said: 'On 23 June the British people gave a clear mandate for the UK Government to leave the EU. This case is a plain attempt to block Brexit by people who are out of touch with the country and refuse to accept the result.'

He added: 'An unholy alliance of diehard Remain campaigners, a fund manager, an unelected judiciary and the House of Lords must not be allowed to thwart the wishes of the British public. It would trigger a constitutional crisis if the Supreme Court upheld this vague and undemocratic verdict'.

Iain Duncan Smith, the former Work and Pensions Secretary said the judges had precipitated 'a constitutional crisis – literally pitting Parliament against the will of the people'.

Ukip's Nigel Farage said: 'I now fear that every attempt will be made to block or delay the triggering of Article 50. If this is so, they have no idea of the public anger they will provoke.'

Leading Leave campaigner Douglas Carswell MP said: 'Shocking judicial activism – these judges are politicians without accountability.' 

