progress	function	hostile	interesting	text
0%	elevation			It is God that we thank and it is God whose help and forgiveness we seek and whose name we uphold against our own evil and our wrongdoings.
0%				Whoever is guided by God cannot be misled and whoever misleads can find no guidance.
1%	elevation			I declare that there is no God but Allah and that Muhammad is his subject and messenger.
1%				""""
1%				"O ye who believe, fear God as he should be feared and die not except in a state of Islam,"" ""O mankind, reverence your Guardian-Lord who created you from a single person, created, of like nature, his mate and from them twain scattered (like seeds) countless men and women; reverence God, through whom ye demand your mutual (rights) and (reverence)"
1%				"the wombs (that bore you) for God ever watches over you,"" ""O ye who believe, fear God and (always) say a word directed to the right, that he may make your conduct whole and sound and forgive you your sins."
1%				"He that obeys God and his apostle has already attained the highest achievement."""
1%				"[Koranic verses] Thank God who said: ""And reform is my only aim and only God can grant me success."
1%	elevation			"On him I depend and in him I believe."""
2%				"And thank God who said: ""Ye are the best of peoples evolved for mankind, enjoining what is right, forbidding what is wrong, and believing in God."""
2%				[Koranic verses]
2%				"Prayers and peace be upon his Prophet who said: ""People who see an unjust person and do nothing are about to be punished by God."""
2%				"You are not unaware of the injustice, repression, and aggression that have befallen Muslims through the alliance of Jews, Christians, and their agents, so much so that Muslims' blood has become the cheapest blood and their money and wealth are plundered by the enemies."
2%				Your blood has been spilled in Palestine and Iraq.
2%	othering			"The image of that dreadful massacre in Qana, Lebanon, is still vivid in one's mind, and so are the massacres in Tajikistan, Burma, Kashmir, Assam, the Philippines, Fatani [as transliterated], Ogaden, Somalia, Eritrea, Chechnya, and Bosnia-Herzegovina where hair-raising and revolting massacres were committed before the eyes of the entire world clearly in accordance with a conspiracy by the United States and its allies who banned arms for the oppressed there under the cover of the unfair United Nations."
2%	othering			"That alerted Muslims to the fact that they are the main target of the Jewish-crusade alliance aggression, and all the false claims about human rights fell under the blows and massacres committed against Muslims everywhere."
3%	elevation			"The latest aggression was one of the worst catastrophes to befall the Muslims since the death of the Prophet, may God's prayers and blessings be upon him."
3%				"It was the occupation of the land of the two holy mosques [Saudi Arabia], the cradle of Islam, the scene of the revelation, the source of the message, and the site of the holy Ka'bah, the qiblah [to which Muslims turn in prayer] of all Muslims, by Christian armies of the Americans and their allies."
3%	elevation			God is the source of all power.
3%	othering			"In the light of the reality we are going through and the blessed, sweeping awakening in the world at large and in the Islamic world in particular, I meet with you today after a long absence dictated by the unjust crusade campaign led by the United States against the ulema and advocates of Islam to prevent them from instigating the Islamic nation against its enemies, as did their predecessors, may God have mercy on their souls, such as Ibn-Taymiyah and al-'Izz Ibn-'Abd-al-Salam."
3%	othering			"And so, this Jewish-crusade alliance killed and detained the symbols of the truthful ulema and upholders of the call - and God is above everyone."
3%	othering			"It killed the mujahid Shaykh 'Abdallah 'Azzam and detained the mujahid Shaykh Ahmad Yasin in the land from which the Prophet, may God's prayers and blessings be upon him, ascended to heaven, and the mujahid Shaykh 'Umar 'Abd-al Rahman in the United States."
3%	othering			"And, at the behest of the United States, a very large number of ulema, advocates of the call, and youth were arrested in the land of the two holy mosques."
3%				"Prominent among them are Shaykh Salman al-'Awdah, Shaykh Safar al-Hawali, and their brother."
4%				Help comes from God who is the source of all power.
4%				"We were affected by that injustice in that we were prevented from addressing Muslims and were pursued in Pakistan, Sudan, and Afghanistan."
4%	elevation		implicit - largest superpower on earth	"Hence that long absence, but, thanks be to God, a safe base was found in Khorasan [Afghanistan], on the soil of the Hindu Kush where, thanks be to God, the largest heretic power on earth was destroyed and where the superpower myth vanished in the face of the mujahidin's outcry of Allah Akbar [God is great]."
4%				"Today, from the same land, from Afghanistan, we seek to end the injustice which has befallen the nation at the hands of the Jewish-crusade alliance, especially after the occupation of the land of the ascension of the Prophet [now Israel], may God's prayers and blessings be upon him, and the violation of the land of the two holy mosques."
4%	elevation			"We beseech God to give us victory, for that is in his hands and he is capable of granting it."
4%				"Today we begin to talk, work, and discuss ways of rectifying what has befallen the Islamic world in general and the land of the two holy mosques in particular."
4%				"We want to study the ways which could be used to rectify matters and restore rights to their owners as people have been subjected to grave danger and harm to their religion and their lives, people of all walks of life, civilians, military, security men, employees, merchants, people big and small, school and university students, and unemployed university graduates, in fact hundreds of thousands who constitute a broad sector of the society."
5%				"The same thing has befallen the people in industry and in agriculture, the cities and villages, and the people in the desert and the rural areas."
5%			Expression of ingroup negativity	Everyone is complaining about almost everything.
5%				"The situation in the land of the two holy mosques is like a gigantic volcano about to erupt and destroy heresy and corruption, whatever their source."
5%				"The explosions of Riyadh and al-Khubar were only a small indication of that torrential flood resulting from the bitter suffering, repression, coercion, great injustice, disgraceful debauchery, and poverty."
5%				People have been greatly preoccupied with matters of their livelihood.
5%				"Talk of economic decline, high prices, massive debts, and overcrowded prisons is widespread and endless in society."
5%				Low-income employees will talk to you about their debts running to tens and hundreds of thousands of riyals.
6%				They complain about the massive and continuing drop in the purchasing power of the riyal in comparison with most other major currencies.
6%				"Major traders and contractors will talk to you about the debts owed to them by the state running to hundreds of millions and even billions of riyals, increasing daily as a result of rates of usury."
6%				"The state's internal debts to the public have reached more than 340 billion riyals, not to mention the foreign debts."
6%			Rhetorical question much like bush	People are wondering: Is ours really the largest oil exporting country?
6%	othering			"They feel that God is tormenting them because they kept quiet about the regime's injustice and illegitimate actions, especially its failure to have recourse to the Shari'ah, its confiscation of people's legitimate rights, the opening of the land of the two holy mosques to the American occupiers, and the arbitrary jailing of the true ulema, heirs of the Prophets."
6%	elevation			"Good people who specialize in matters of religion, such as propagators of Islam and ulema, as well as experts in earthly matters such as traders, economists, and dignitaries, became alert to that affliction and each group did its best to act quickly to remedy the situation."
6%				Everyone agrees that the country is moving towards a deep abyss and a terrible calamity the extent of which only God knows.
7%	othering			"As one major businessman said, ""the king is leading the country to 60 calamities."" God is the source of all help and power."
7%				"Many princes share the public's concern and privately voice opposition to what is going on in the country in terms of terror, repression, and corruption."
7%				"The rivalry between princes overseeing their own personal interests has ruined the country and the regime has destroyed its legitimacy with its own hands through many actions, the most important being:"
7%				"1. Its suspension of the Islamic Shari'ah laws, replacing them with temporal laws, and its bloody confrontation with the truthful ulema and good youth - and God is above everyone."
7%				"2. Its failure to protect the country, opening it to the nation's enemies, the American crusader forces who have become the main cause of all aspects of our plight, especially the economic aspect as a result of the unjustified heavy expenditure on them and as a result of the policies they impose on the country, and particularly the oil policy determining the quantities of oil to be produced and setting the prices which suit their own economic interests ignoring the country's economic interests, and also as a result of the exorbitant arms deals imposed on the regime, to the point that people are wondering what good, then, is the regime?"
8%				"So, each group has made efforts to act quickly and evade the danger."
8%				"They offered advice secretly and openly, in verse and in prose, singly and in groups, and they sent petition after petition and memorandum after memorandum."
8%				They left no stone unturned and there was no influential person they did not include in their reformist moves.
8%				In their writings they applied the gentle and lenient method of wisdom and good advice calling for reform and penance for the major wrongdoings and corruption that transgressed the categorical religious limits and the public's legitimate rights.
8%				"Most regrettably, however, the only response they got from the regime was rejection, disregard, and ridicule."
8%				The matter did not stop at the point of just humiliating them but that was followed by greater and greater misdeeds throughout the land of the two holy mosques.
8%				"Therefore, silence was no longer appropriate and overlooking the facts was no longer acceptable."
8%				"When the excesses intensified and went beyond the limits of simple wrongdoings and misdeeds to violation of the clear basis of Islam, a group of ulema and religious preachers grew tired of the deafening sound of misguidance and injustice and the suffocating smell of corruption."
9%				So signs of rejection appeared and voices were raised calling for reform to remedy the situation and stop the rot.
9%				"They were joined by hundreds of intellectuals, dignitaries, merchants, and former officials."
9%				They submitted petitions and memoranda to the king urging reform.
9%				"In the Hegira year of 1411 during the Gulf war, a petition signed by about 400 figures was submitted to the king calling for rectification of the situation in the country and for an end to the injustice to the public, but he ignored the advice and ridiculed those who offered it, and the situation got worse."
9%				"Those who had offered the advice then sent more memoranda and petitions, the most important being the advice memorandum handed to the king in the month of Muharram 1413 Hegira [roughly 1992] which diagnosed the disease and prescribed the medicine with a sound Shari'ah approach and in a sound scientific way."
9%	othering			"It dwelt on the major gaps in the regime's philosophy and the main anomalies in the regime's foundations, pointing to the suffering of society's symbols and leaders calling for reform, such as the ulema, religious protagonists, tribal shaykhs, merchants, dignitaries, and university professors, who were marginalized, neutralized, and even pursued and harassed."
9%				It also dwelt on the country's laws and regulations and what they allowed and disallowed against God's will.
10%				"It discussed the state of the media in the country which became means for the advancement of individuals and relatives and for obliterating facts, falsifying the truth, defaming righteous people, and shedding crocodile tears for the nation's causes to mislead people without any serious action and to implement the enemies' plans to corrupt people, draw them away from their religion, and spread sin among the believers."
10%				"""Those who love (to see) scandal published and broadcast among the believers will have a grievous penalty in this life and in the hereafter."
10%				"God knows and ye know not"""
10%				[Koranic verse].
10%				It [the advice memorandum] discussed the people's violated legitimate rights and the administrative situation with all its inefficiency and corruption.
10%				"It pointed to the state's financial and economic situation and the terrible and frightful fate in store as a result of the debts of usury which have broken the state's back, and to the waste which has squandered the nation's wealth to satisfy personal wealth, resulting in taxes, duties, and excises imposed on the public."
10%				"The Prophet, may God's prayers and blessings be upon him, said about the woman who sinned, repented, and was dealt with accordingly: ""She repented and if one who imposes taxes repented in the same way he would be forgiven."""
11%				"That reflects the magnitude of the sin of the tax man, but some are publicly and over loudspeakers applauding him and his massive and permitted usury, but that is heresy."
11%				Reliance is on God who is the source of all power.
11%				"It exposed the despicable state of the social utilities in the country, which became even worse after the memorandum, and especially the water services, the most important element of livelihood."
11%				"It discussed the state of the Army whose small numbers, poor training, and inefficient command were exposed by the Gulf crisis, despite the astronomical and unreasonable figures which had been mentioned and could not remain a secret."
11%				"On justice and the courts, the memorandum showed that numerous Shari'ah laws had been suspended and replaced with temporal laws."
11%			implicit - refering to a policy rather than an person	"On the state's foreign policy, the memorandum exposed that policy's failures and disregard for Muslim causes and even support and backing for the enemies."
11%				"The (Gaza- Jericho) [agreement] and the case of the communists in southern Yemen are not too distant examples, and there are many others."
12%				"Upholding temporal laws and supporting heretics against Muslims are prohibited in Islam, as the ulema have ruled."
12%				"God said ""whoever does not rule by God's law is a heretic,"" and He said: ""But no, by the Lord, they can have no (real) faith until they make thee judge in all disputes between them, and find in their souls no resistance against thy decisions, but accept them with the fullest conviction"" [Koranic verses]."
12%				"Although the memorandum submitted all that leniently and gently, as a reminder of God and as good advice in a gentle, objective, and sincere way, despite the importance and necessity of advice for rulers in Islam, and despite the number and positions of the signatories of the memorandum and their sympathizers, it was of no avail."
12%				"Its contents were rejected and its signatories and sympathizers were humiliated, punished, and imprisoned."
12%	elevation			The preachers' and reformers' eagerness to pursue peaceful reform methods in the interest of the country's unity and to prevent bloodshed was clearly demonstrated.
12%	othering			So why should the regime block all means of peaceful reform and drive the people toward armed action?
12%	othering		long sentence for testing	"That was the only door left open to the public for ending injustice and upholding right and justice, and in whose interests do Prince Sultan and Prince Nayif plunge the country and the people into an internal war that would destroy everything, enlisting the aid and advice of those who fomented internal sedition in their country and using the people's police force to put down the reform movement there and pit members of the public one against the other leaving the main enemy in the region, namely the Jewish-American alliance, safe and secure, having found such traitors to implement its policies aimed at exhausting the nation's human and financial resources internally."
13%				The person whom Interior Minister Prince Nayif is consulting [not further identified] was not tolerated in his own country because of his extreme dirt and affront to his people.
13%				"He was dismissed from his post but came to be received by Prince Nayif with open arms, for cooperation on sin and aggression."
13%				"He filled the prisons with the nation's best sons, bringing tears to the eyes of the mothers whose sons were jailed unfairly."
13%	othering			"Does the regime want to pit the public, civilians and military, against one another as was the case in some neighboring countries?"
13%	othering			"I have no doubt that that is the policy of the Israeli-American enemy alliance, the main beneficiary of all that."
13%				"But, thank God, the vast majority of the people, civilians and military, are aware of that sinister plan and will not allow themselves to be an instrument for strikes against one another in implementation of the policy of the main enemy, namely the Israeli-American alliance, through the Saudi regime, its agent in the country."
13%	othering			"That is why everyone agrees that ""a crooked stick cannot have a straight shadow"" and that there must be concentration on hitting the main enemy who has thrust the nation into whirlpools and labyrinths for decades since dividing it into states and statelets."
14%	othering			"Whenever a reform movement appears in the Islamic states, that Jewish-crusade alliance pushes its agents in the region, the rulers, to exhaust and abort such a reform movement by various suitable means, sometimes aborting it by luring it to armed confrontation, for which it chooses the time and place and through which it would nip it in the bud."
14%				"Sometimes he would set loose his men in the Interior Ministry, who had graduated from Shari'ah colleges, to confuse and undermine the reform march and to draw the nation and the people away from that march, sometimes luring some righteous men to enter into a war of words with the ulema and the symbols of the reform movement to exhaust everyone's energy and keep the great heresy in control of the nation, misleading it and continuing the peripheral discussions while the worship of God and adherence to his Shari'ah are absent in reality."
14%				"In these discussions and responses right and wrong get mixed up and often lead to personal enmities, with some people taking sides, thereby further dividing and weakening the nation, so that Islamic action priorities disappear."
14%				One should beware of these and similar diabolical tricks by the Interior Ministry.
14%				"The appropriate behavior in such cases is what has been advised by the ulema, such as what the late Shaykh al-Islam Ibn-Taymiyah said, namely that all Muslims should join hands in warding off the great heresy controlling the Islamic world while sustaining minimum damage to prevent the greater damage which is in the fact the great heresy."
14%				When duties are numerous the most important takes priority.
14%	othering			"It is no secret that warding off that American enemy is the top duty after faith, and nothing should take priority over it, as decreed by the ulema."
14%				"Shaykh al-Islam Ibn-Taymiyah said: ""Fighting in self-defense is the strongest way of warding off harm to honor and religion, and it is a collective duty."
15%				Warding off an enemy who corrupts religion and the world is a top duty after faith.
15%				"It is unconditional and is done according to means."""
15%				"If warding off that aggressive enemy becomes impossible without all Muslims of all walks and ranks getting together, then that is their duty and they should in that case overlook some disputed issues."
15%				Overlooking such disputes at this stage is less harmful than continuation of the great heresy afflicting the countries of the Muslims.
15%				"That is why Shaykh al-Islami, explaining that matter, pointed out a main and great principle which should be taken into account, which is that work should concentrate on warding off the greater of the two evils."
15%				"Referring to the state of the mujahidin and Muslims, he said that if among them there happened to be very sinful soldiers, that would not justify abandoning the jihad against the aggressive enemy."
15%				"After discussing the case of the Tatars and their change of God's laws, he, may God have mercy on his soul, said that ""agreement on fighting them fully would please God, uphold his word, and establish his religion and obedience to his Prophet."
16%				"If some among them [Muslims] happen to be sinful and ill intentioned, fighting for leadership or offending others on some matters, and if the religious harm of not fighting them is greater than the harm of fighting them, then the duty is to fight them to ward off the greater harm."
16%	elevation			"That is why one of the principles of the Sunnah and the [Prophet's] group is to do conquest using every good as well as sinful person, for God supports this in the interest of the cause of religion because, as the Prophet, may God's prayers and blessings be upon him, said, if conquest can only be achieved with the help of sinful princes or very sinful soldiers, then one of two things must be done:"
16%				"Either abandon the conquest with their cooperation, which means the greater harm of others taking over, or proceed with the conquest along with the sinful princes, and that way the greater harm is avoided and most of the rules of Islam are established, if not all."
16%				That would be the duty in that case and in all similar cases.
16%				"In fact many of the conquests which took place after the orthodox caliphs took place in that way."""
16%			implicit - reference to aggressive enemy	What is necessary in such a case is that everyone should do his best to incite and mobilize the nation against the aggressive enemy and the great heresy prevailing in the country and corrupting religion and life.
16%	othering			"There is no greater duty after faith than warding [daf'] off [that enemy], namely the Israeli-American alliance occupying the land of the two holy mosques and the land of the ascension of the Prophet, may God's prayers and blessings be upon him."
17%				"The Muslims are reminded that they should avoid infighting between sons of the Muslim nation because that will have dire consequences, the most important being:"
17%				1
17%				"Exhaustion of human resources ""as most of the casualties and victims would be from the Muslim people."""
17%				2
17%				Exhaustion of financial resources.
17%				3
17%				Destruction of the state's infrastructure.
18%				4
18%				Disintegration of society.
18%				5
18%	othering			"Destruction of the oil industries, because the presence of the crusader and American military forces in the Islamic Gulf states, on land, in the air, and at sea, represents the greatest danger and harm and the greatest threat to the largest oil reserves in the world."
18%	othering			"That presence is a provocation to the people and an affront to their religion, feelings, and dignity, and has driven them toward armed struggle against the occupying invaders."
18%				"A spread of fighting in these areas would carry the danger of the oil burning which would be detrimental to the economic interests of the Gulf states and the land of the two holy mosques, and in fact to the world economy."
18%	elevation			"Here we pause and urge our brothers the people, the mujahidin, to preserve that wealth and not to involve it in the battle because it is a great Islamic wealth and a great and important economic power for the coming Islamic state, God willing."
19%		Hostile		"We also firmly warn the aggressive United States against burning that Islamic wealth at the end of the war for fear of it falling into the hands of its legitimate owners and to harm its economic rivals in Europe and the Far East, especially Japan, which is considered the main consumer of the region's oil."
19%				6
19%				"Partition of the country of the two holy mosques with Israel taking the northern part Partition of the land of the two holy mosques is considered to be an urgent demand of the Jewish-crusade alliance, because the existence of a state of such size and with such resources under sound Islamic rule, which, God willing, is coming, would be a threat to the Jewish entity in Palestine, for the land of the two holy mosques would be a symbol for the unity of the Islamic world because of the presence of the holy Ka'bah, the qiblah of all Muslims."
19%	elevation			"Furthermore, the land of the two holy mosques is an important economic power in the Islamic world because it has the largest oil reserves in the world."
19%	elevation			"Furthermore, the people of the two holy mosques are linked to the history of their predecessors, the Prophet's companions, whom they see as the example to follow and the ideal to uphold in restoring the nation's glory and upholding the will of God."
19%				That is in addition to the strategic depth and extended manpower fighting for God in happy Yemen.
19%	elevation			"As the Prophet, may God's prayers and blessings be upon him, said, ""and from Aden and Abyan would come 12,000 who would support God and his Prophet, and they are among the best of us."""
19%				That would constitute a threat to the presence of the Jewish-crusade alliance in the region.
20%				7
20%				Any infighting under whatever pretext while the American occupation forces are still present would be a grave danger because these forces would seek to settle the battle in favor of world heresy.
20%	elevation			"Our brothers in the Armed Forces, National Security, and security forces, may God preserve you as defenders of Islam and Muslim:"
20%	elevation			"O protectors of monotheism and guardians of the faith; O successors of those who spread the light of guidance in the world; O grandsons of Sa'd Bin-Abi-Waqqas, al-Muthanna Bin-Harithah al-Shibani, al-Qa'qa' Bin-'Amr al-Tamimi, and the companions who fought alongside them:"
20%	elevation			"You rushed to join the Army and the Guard merely to join the jihad for the cause of God in order to spread the word of God and to defend Islam and the land of the two holy mosques against invaders and occupiers, which is the highest degree of belief in religion."
20%	othering			"But the regime disrupted the balances, distorted the concepts, humiliated the nation, and disobeyed the nation."
20%	othering		long sentence for testing	"Although the nation still has not recovered its first qiblah and the point of the Prophet's midnight journey to the seven heavens [al-Aqsa Mosque] despite the promises made by the rulers over half a century to work to recover it, but instead, the al-Aqsa Mosque has been handed to the Jews, and the nation's wounds are still bleeding - despite all this, the Saudi regime shocked the nation by bringing the women of Christian armies to defend it and opening the country of the two holy mosques to the crusaders."
21%				"There is nothing strange about that, since the [Saudi] king has been decorated by a cross."
21%	othering			The regime opened the country which is now full of the armies of the United States and its allies.
21%	othering			Because the regime is impotent without their help.
21%				"You - better than anyone else - are aware of this presence, its scale, aims, and danger."
21%	othering			So the regime has betrayed the nation and allied with and supported the infidels against Muslims.
21%				"As is known, this is one of the contradictions in Islam."
21%	othering			"By opening the Arabian Peninsula to the crusaders, the regime has violated the Prophet's will to his nation before his death: ""Move the atheists out of the Arabian Peninsula."""
22%				"He also said: ""If I live, God willing, I will move the Jews and the Christians out of the Arabian Peninsula."""
22%	othering			"The claim that the crusaders' presence in the land of the two holy mosques is a necessity and a temporary matter aimed at defending this land is an old and obsolete story, especially after the brutal destruction of Iraq and its military and civilian infrastructures."
22%				This claim reflects the scale of the crusaders' and Jews' spite toward Muslims and their children.
22%				And the regime also insisted on not replacing the crusader forces with Islamic forces from among the country's sons and elsewhere.
22%	othering			"Besides, this claim is no longer valid following the statements made by the leaders of atheism in the United States, the most recent being that of US Defense Secretary William Perry after the al-Khubar blast targeting US troops."
22%				He said that their presence in the land of the two holy mosques is aimed at protecting US interests.
22%	elevation			Shaykh Safar al-Hawali - may God help him - wrote a 70-page book in which he listed evidence and proofs that the US presence in the Arabian Peninsula is a pre-planned military occupation.
23%				"The claim is another trick by the regime, but it will not fool Muslims as its first trick fooled the Palestinian mujahidin."
23%				The first trick resulted in the al-Aqsa Mosque being lost.
23%	othering			"When the Muslim people in Palestine rose up in their great jihad against the British occupation in 1354 H, corresponding to 1936, Britain failed to stop the mujahidin or their jihad."
23%	othering			"Their devil inspired them that the armed jihad in Palestine can only be stopped through their agent, King 'Abd-al-'Aziz, who they believed was capable of deceiving the mujahidin."
23%				And indeed King 'Abd-al-'Aziz carried out his mission by sending his two sons to meet with mujahidin leaders in Palestine and inform him of King 'Abd-al-'Aziz' pledge to guarantee the British Government's promises that it would withdraw and meet their demands if they halted the jihad.
23%	othering			So King 'Abd-al-'Aziz was behind the loss of the Muslims' first qiblah.
23%	othering			He allied himself with the Christians against Muslims.
24%	othering			"And he abandoned the mujahidin, instead of espousing the al-Aqsa Mosque issue and supporting those struggling for the sake of God's cause."
24%	othering			"And here is his son, King Fahd, trying to fool Muslims with the second trick in order to squander our remaining holy sites."
24%	othering			He lied to the ulema who sanctioned the Americans' entry and he lied to the Islamic world's ulema and leaders at the [World Muslim] League's conference in holy Mecca in the wake of the Islamic world's condemnation of the crusader forces' entry into the country of the two holy mosques on the pretext of defending it.
24%				He told them that the matter was simple and that the US and coalition troops would leave in a few months.
24%				And here we are approaching the seventh year since their arrival and the regime is unable to move them out.
24%				The regime does not want to admit to its people its inability to do so.
24%	othering			It has continued to lie to people and claim that the Americans will depart...which is impossible.
25%				"Once bitten, twice shy."
25%				The happy ones are those who learn from others' experiences.
25%	othering			"Instead of pushing the Army, the Guard, and the security men to confront the occupiers, the regime is using them to protect the occupiers, which is the highest degree of humiliation, insult, and treason."
25%	elevation			May God give us strength.
25%		Hostile		"We remind the minority of people in the Army, police, Guard, and security forces, who are being humiliated by the regime to get them to encroach on Muslims' rights and lives, of Almighty God's words in the divine hadith: ""I declare war on those who are hostile toward holy men."""
25%				"And also of the Prophet's saying: ""A man will come holding the hand of another, saying: O God, this man killed me [talking about the Day of Judgment], so God will say to him: Why did you kill him?"
25%				He will reply: I killed him so that glory would be yours.
25%				God will say: It is mine.
26%				"Another man will come holding another's hand and saying: O God, this man killed me."
26%				God will say to him: Why did you kill him?
26%				He will say: To achieve glory for such and such.
26%				"God will tell him: It [glory] does not belong to such and such; he will be punished for his sins."""
26%				"The Prophet is also reported to have said: ""The murdered will come on the Day of Judgment, clinging to his murderer."
26%				So God will say: Why did you kill him?
26%				"He will say: To appease such and such."""
27%	elevation			"Your brothers and sons, the sons of the two holy mosques, have launched the jihad for the sake of God's cause to expel the occupying enemy from the country of the two holy mosques."
27%	elevation			Without doubt you wish to carry out this mission in order to restore the nation's glory and liberate its occupied holy sites.
27%				But you are aware that this stage requires the adoption of suitable combat methods due to the lack of parity between our regular Armed Forces and the enemy's forces.
27%				"Namely, through light and fast [khafifah wa sari'at alharakah] forces operating in complete secrecy."
27%				"In other words, by waging guerrilla warfare in which the people's sons other than the Armed Forces take part."
27%				"As is known, it is wise at this stage to spare the Armed Forces the task of engaging in traditional fighting with the crusader enemy's forces."
27%				"This is with the exception of daring and powerful operations carried out separately by individuals from the Armed Forces, that is, without mobilizing regular forces with their traditional formations, and in a manner that would not reflect adversely on the Army, unless there are great interests to be gained and heavy losses to inflicted on the enemy - losses that destroy its foundations and rock its Pillars - losses that help to expel the enemy, routed, ensuring that no Muslim blood is shed in the process."
28%				What your mujahidin brothers and sons want from you at this stage is to provide every possible support: information and the materials and arms needed for their work.
28%				"And they want the security men - in particular - to turn a blind eye and deceive the enemy about their whereabouts, spread false rumors among its ranks, and do whatever is viable to help the mujahidin against the occupying enemy."
28%	othering			"We alert you to the fact that the regime might carry out operations against members of the Armed Forces, Guard, or security forces and try to attribute them to the mujahidin with a view to driving a wedge between them and you."
28%				So the regime should be denied that opportunity.
28%	othering			"While we know that the regime is fully responsible for what has afflicted the country and the people, the main disease and the cause of the affliction is the occupying US enemy."
28%		Hostile	co-referencing to him	"So efforts should be pooled to kill him, fight him, destroy him."
28%				"We should lie in wait for him until he is defeated, God willing."
29%	othering	Hostile		"The time will come, God willing, for you to play your role in settling the situation in order to exalt the word of God to the heights, humble the unbelievers' word to the depths, hit the aggressors with an iron fist, put matters right, and perform your true Islamic duty."
29%				"We will have a separate discussion about these issues, God willing."
29%				"Muslim brothers everywhere, the Arabian Peninsula in particular:  The money paid for US goods is turning into bullets [fired at] the chests of our brothers in Palestine, and tomorrow the chests of the sons of the country of the two holy mosques; by buying their goods we are strengthening their economy while we continue to become poorer."
29%				Muslim brothers in the country of the two holy mosques:
29%				"Is it reasonable for our country to be the biggest importer of US arms in the world, a trade partner of the Americans in the region - the Americans who are occupying the country of the two holy mosques and supporting their Jewish brothers with money, arms, and men to occupy Palestine and kill and displace Muslims there?!!"
29%				Denying these aggressors the huge profits they make from their trade with us would be a very important help in the jihad against them.
29%				It would be tantamount to moral support to reflect our anger and hatred toward them.
30%				"By doing that we will have contributed to ridding our holy sites of the Jews and Christians and forced them to leave our land, defeated, God willing."
30%				We expect women in the country of the two holy mosques and elsewhere to play their role by boycotting US goods.
30%				"If the economic boycott is coupled with the mujahidin's military strikes, then the enemy's defeat is imminent, God willing - and vice versa:"
30%				"If the Muslims do not cooperate with and support their mujahidin brothers by severing economic dealings with the US enemy, then they are paying him money, which is the foundation of wars and armies, hence prolonging the war and the Muslims' suffering from it."
30%				Security and intelligence services in the world cannot force a citizen to purchase his enemies' goods.
30%	othering			"The economic boycott of the US enemy's goods is an extremely effective weapon, in order to weaken and harm the enemy."
30%				"Nevertheless, this weapon does fall under the supervision of the repressive organs."
31%				"Before concluding, we have an important, very important, discussion with young Muslims, the men of the bright future of Muhammad's nation."
31%	elevation			Our discussion with the young men is about their duty at this difficult stage in the history of our nation - the stage in which no one except the young men - may God protect them - have performed their duty in all directions.
31%	elevation			"After those who hesitated to perform their duty to defend Islam and rescue themselves and property from the oppression, repression, and terrorism exercised by the state, the young men, may God protect them, moved forward to raise the banner of the jihad against the US-Jewish alliance which occupied Islamic holy sites, while others, as a result of the state's terrorism, moved forward to grant legitimacy to this great treason and big disaster: the occupation of the country of the two holy mosques."
31%	elevation			May God give us strength.
31%				The is nothing strange about this: Muhammad's companions were young men.
31%				And the young men of today are the successor of the early ones.
31%	elevation		a bad event but expressed positively	"It was the young men who killed this nation's tyrant, Abu-Jahl."
31%				"'Abd-al-Rahman Bin-'Awf, may God be pleased with him, said: A young man told me: I heard that Abu-Jahl insulted the Prophet, peace be upon him."
32%				A companion [of Muhammad] said: I swear by God that if I see him I will fight with him until the strongest wins.
32%	elevation			God is great.
32%				This is how the young companions behaved.
32%		Hostile		"Two young men asking one another about the most important target among the enemy's ranks, namely to kill the tyrant of this nation and the leader of the atheists in Badr, namely Abu-Jahl. '"
32%				Abd-al-Rahman Bin-'Awf's role was to tell them about Abu-Jahl's whereabouts.
32%				This is the role required from those who have knowledge and experience about the enemy's most vulnerable spots.
32%				They are required to guide their sons and brothers to these spots.
33%				"Then the young men will say what their predecessors said: ""By God, if I see him, I will fight with him until the strongest wins."""
33%				'Abd-al-Rahman Bin-'Awf's story about Umayyah Bin-Khalaf reflects the extent of Bilal's insistence on killing the head of atheism.
33%				"He said ""The head of atheism is Umayyah Bin-Khalaf — no life for me if he survives."""
33%				"A few days ago news agencies carried a statement by the occupier-crusader, the US defense secretary, in which he said that he has learned one lesson from the Riyadh and al-Khubar blasts, namely not to retreat in front of the terrorist cowards."
33%	othering			We tell the defense secretary that this talk makes people laugh and reflects the scale of your fears.
33%	othering			"Where was that false courage in Beirut after the bombings of 1403H, corresponding to 1983, which dismembered you by killing 241 soldiers, most of them from the Marines?"
33%	othering			Where was that false courage in Aden following two bombing incidents which caused you to depart in less than 24 hours?
34%	othering			But your great scandal was in Somalia.
34%				"After several months of media propaganda about the United States' might after the Cold War and its leadership of the new world order, you poured tens of thousands of international troops, including 28,000 Americans, into Somalia."
34%	othering			"However, after minor battles in which scores of your troops were killed and a US pilot's body was dragged through the streets of Mogadishu, you left the country, defeated and carrying your dead."
34%				"Clinton emerged before the world, threatening to take revenge."
34%				But the threat was a prelude to the withdrawal process.
34%	othering			God shamed you and you had to pull out.
34%	othering			Your impotence and weakness were evident.
35%	othering			"The picture of you being defeated in the three Islamic cities (Beirut, Aden, and Mogadishu) pleased every Muslim and believer."
35%	elevation			"I say: If the sons of the country of the two holy mosques - who went to fight the Russians in Afghanistan, the Serbs in Bosnia-Herzegovina, and who are now fighting in Chechnya, and God has granted them victory over the Russians, who are allying with you - and they are also fighting in Tajikistan - believe in the need to fight against atheism everywhere, they have the strength and enthusiasm in the land in which they were born to defend their greatest holy sites, the holy Ka'bah, the qiblah of all Muslims."
35%				"They also know that Muslims in the world [a portion of the text is missing at this point; if pagination of fax copy is correct, this suggests two pages, approximately 1,600 words, are missing."
35%				Text resumes by citing parts of a poem].
35%	elevation			"The Jerusalem wound is painful in my body, it is like fire inside me; I have never betrayed God, but states have."
35%				"And their grandfather 'Asim Bin-Thabit said when the atheists requested him to negotiate and not to fight: What do I have to lose - I am already too old; death is truth and life is falsehood - I do not fight you, then I am foolish."
35%	othering			"Young men believe you [apparently still addressing the United States] are responsible for what your Jewish brothers are doing in Palestine and Lebanon, namely killing and making Muslims homeless and violating their rights."
36%				You are openly supplying them with money and weapons.
36%	othering			"And more than 600,000 children have died in Iraq as a result of the shortages of food and medicines caused by your unjust embargo on Iraq, whose children are ours."
36%	othering			So you and the Saudi regime are held responsible for the blood of those innocent people.
36%				"All this causes us to revoke any treaty ['ahd] between us, as the Prophet, peace be upon him, considered the al-Hudaybiyah peace null and void after Quraysh helped Bani Bakr against the Prophet's allies."
36%				So he fought against Quraysh and opened Mecca.
36%	othering			And he considered the agreement with Bani Qaynaqa' null and void because a Jew from among them harmed a woman in a marketplace.
36%	othering			But you killed hundreds of thousands of Muslims and encroached on their holy sites.
36%	othering			"It is now clear that those claiming that the blood of the soldiers of the US enemy, who is occupying a Muslim country, is protected, are repeating - under compulsion - what is dictated by the regime, for fear of its oppression and in order to be on the safe side."
37%				It is incumbent on every tribe in the Arabian Peninsula to fight for God's cause and purge their territory of these occupiers.
37%			implicit - setting group permissions	"God says that it is permissible to shed their blood and seize their property, and anyone who kills a person, the booty is his."
37%	othering	Hostile		"Almighty God said: ""But when the forbidden months are past, then fight and slay the pagans wherever ye find them, and seize them, beleaguer them, and lie in wait for them...."""
37%		Hostile	implicit hostility suggesting there are no other options than violence	Young men know that the humiliation inflicted on Muslims through the occupation of their holy sites can only be eliminated through the jihad and explosives.
37%				They repeat the poet's words:
37%				Humiliation can only be eliminated through bullets and the shedding of blood.
37%				"I tell the young men of the Islamic world who fought in Afghanistan and Bosnia-Herzegovina with their money, lives, tongues, and pens that the battles has not ended yet."
38%				"I remind them of Gabriel's discussion with the messenger of God after the al-Ahzab battle: When the messenger of God arrived in Medina, he put his weapon aside."
38%				Gabriel came up to him and said: Have you laid down your weapon?
38%				"By God, the angels have not yet laid down their weapons."
38%				"So move with those who are with you to Bani Qurayzah, as I will be moving in front of you, rocking their fortifications and striking terror in their hearts."
38%				"So Gabriel joined a procession of angels with the Prophet behind them, joined by emigrants and supporters."
38%				"Young men know that those who are not killed are going to die [one day], and that the most honorable way to die is to die for the sake of God's cause."
38%			long sentence for testing	"They repeat the saying of their grandfather, the companion 'Abdallah Bin-Rawahah, especially after the murder of the four heroes who blew up the Americans in Riyadh - these young men have restored daring operation: If not killed, one will die one day anyhow - here is the fire of death blazing if you engage in it, you will be rightly guided."
39%		Hostile		Ja'far said: Paradise is approaching - beautiful and its drink is cold; the Romans are approaching their own suffering - I promise I will fight them if I come face to face with them.
39%	elevation			"As regards our mothers, sisters, women, and daughters, they follow the example of the honorable women of the Prophet's companions after the Prophet himself, may God's prayers and blessings be upon him, and they emulate their bravery, courage, and generosity in support of God's religion."
39%	elevation			"They remember the courage and steadfastness of Fatimah Bint-al-Khattab, may God's blessings be upon her, when, in support of what was right, she stood up to her own brother 'Umar Ibn-al-Khattab before he adopted Islam and challenged him after he learned of her becoming a Muslim."
39%				"She said to him: ""Do you not see that right is not in your religion, 'Umar?"""
39%	elevation			"And they remember the stand of Asma Bint-Abi-Bakr on the day of the migration [the Prophet's migration to Medina] when she cut her belt in two and used one to tie the travel bag of the Prophet, may God's prayers and blessings be upon him, and [one to tie the bag of] Abu-Bakr which they took with them on their journey to Medina, for which she was called the lady of the two belts."
39%				"They also remember the stand taken by Nusaybah Bint-Ka'b in defense of the Prophet, may God's prayers and blessings be upon him, one day, sustaining 12 wounds in the process, one of them a deep wound in her neck."
39%				They remember the sacrifices of the women of the [Prophet's] companions who sold their jewellery to arm the Muslim invading forces for God's cause.
40%	elevation			"Our women in this era have set magnificent examples in sacrifice for God and in urging their sons, brothers, and husbands to declare jihad for God, in Afghanistan, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Chechnya, and other places."
40%				"We beseech God to accept their sacrifices and to release their sons, fathers, husbands, and brothers, and to consolidate their faith and strengthen their steps on that road of sacrifice so that God's will may prevail."
40%				"Our women only eulogize and sing the praises of the men fighting for God, as the following poem says: Extol only the lions who are brave in raging wars, let me die an honored death in war for glory in death is better than life itself."
40%				"They urge their brothers to go to jihad for God, as the following poem says: Be ready for struggle for this is a serious matter."
40%				"Would you abandon us with all these wolves of heresy biting at our wings, wolves who continue to promote evil everywhere?"
40%				Who among the freemen of my religion will defend freedom with arms?
40%				Death is better than life in humiliation and shame.
41%				Brother Muslims worldwide:
41%				"Your brothers in the land of the two holy mosques and Palestine seek your help and ask you to participate with them in their jihad against their enemies and yours, the Israelis and the Americans, with everything that would drive them out of the Islamic holy places, defeated, with each of you doing what he can."
41%				" ""And if they seek your support in religion, then you must give it."""
41%				[Koranic verse]
41%				So mount your horse for God's cause.
41%	elevation		elevation in reference to a goal	"This is the time to be firm, so be firm and know that your unity and cooperation for the liberation of the Islamic holy places is a sound step toward the unification of the nation's ranks under the banner of the one God."
41%				Here in this position we cannot but pray and ask Almighty God to show us the way and grant us success in all that.
42%	elevation			"The genuine ulema of Islam and the nation's good youth are in captivity, so, God, please release them, give them strength, and look after their people."
42%	othering	Anti-Semetic		"O God, the people of the cross have come with their horses and men and have violated the land of the two holy mosques, and the Jews are wreaking corruption in the al-Aqsa Mosque, the site of the Prophet's ascension to heaven."
42%	othering			"O God, divide them and break them apart and give us strength over them, shake the earth under their feet."
42%	elevation			"O God, help us defeat them and protect us from their evil."
42%	elevation			"O God, show us to be lions in their eyes and perform your miracles."
42%	elevation			"O God who revealed the Koran, moved clouds, and defeated factions, O God, defeat them and grant us victory over them."
42%	elevation			"You are our strength and our support, with you we move and fight, O God you are the best protector."
42%	elevation			"O God, those youth have come together in support of your religion and your banner, so give them your support and bless their hearts."
43%	elevation			"O God, strengthen the youth of Islam, guide their steps, and strike amity into the hearts of Muslims and unite their ranks, and give us patience and steadfastness and grant us victory against the heretics."
43%				"Do not hold anything against us, as was the case with others in the past, and do not give us a load in excess of what we can bear."
43%				"Pardon us, forgive us, and have mercy on us, our lord, and give us triumph over the heretics."
43%	elevation			"O God, give this nation guidance, honoring those who obey you and disgracing those who disobey you, and let good be promoted and evil shunned."
43%	elevation			"O God, bless your subject and messenger Muhammad, his kin, and his companions, and give them great peace."
43%	elevation			"Finally we thank God, the lord of the universe."
43%				Sons and daughters of Islam!
44%				Assalam-o-Alaikum [Greeting].
44%				You are well aware of the problems being faced by the Muslim world at present.
44%				"In this context, I want to make some requests to you."
44%				All the movements and efforts presently taking place from different platforms for the dominance of Islam are individually respectable.
44%				Whichever movement you are associated with is a source of blessing for us.
44%				"However, today the Muslim nation needs a collective and strong target so that every member of the Muslim nation enters the practical field to fulfill the promise made to God Almighty on the pattern of the example set by Prophet Ibrahim."
44%				"Today, the roles of Pharaoh, Caesar, and Chosroes have been taken up by Israel and United States, who first occupied our Aqsa Mosque, in the direction of which our Holy Prophet performed his prayers."
45%				And now these so-called powers are eying the Holy Kaaba and the Nabvi Mosque.
45%	othering			"Only seventy kilometers from the Holy Kaaba, they are ready to implement this ugly conspiracy."
45%	elevation		culturally defined elevation	You are successors of Khalid Bin Waleed and Tariq Bin Ziad.
45%	elevation			You are the beloved people of Ali [Holy Prophet's cousin and son-in-law].
45%	elevation			You are the nation of the Prophet who prayed for us every night.
45%				"Today, every member of the Muslim world agrees that all the Muslim countries of the world having geographical boundaries on the basis of nationality, geography, religious discord, color and race, should be merged into one Muslim state, where men do not rule men."
45%				There should be one caliph for the whole state whose capital should be Mecca.
46%				There should be one currency and defense for this state and the Holy Koran should be its constitution.
46%				The name that has been proposed for this vast state is Global Muslim State.
46%				"I want to congratulate you that by the grace of God, from today, we have begun the task of achieving a highly important and strong target of domination of Islam over all other religions."
46%				"No matter which movement or organization you belong to, you should propagate this message from your respective platforms in such a way that it becomes a voice of the two billion Muslims, so that practical steps might be taken as soon as possible."
46%				Sons and daughters of Islam!
46%				The countdown has started.
46%				You have the agenda in front of you and God
47%				has given a destination within your reach.
47%				The struggle initiated by the heroes of Karbala is about to reach its logical end in the coming few years.
47%				"The hero of Badr War [war fought between Muslims and infidels in the era of the Holy Prophet] will emerge successful from the disaster of 1,400 years, God willing."
47%				Muslims!
47%				Rise up like a storm and destroy the devilish powers.
47%				May God help us all.
47%				"Amen, a servant of Islam, Usama Bin Ladin."
47%				""""
48%				Praise be to God and we beseech Him for help and forgiveness.
48%				We seek refuge with the Lord of our bad and evildoing.
48%				"He whom God guides is rightly guided; but he whom God leaves to stray, for him wilt thou find no protector to lead him to the right way."
48%				[Koranic verse]
48%				I witness that there is no God but God and Muhammad is His slave and Prophet.
48%	othering			God Almighty hit the United States at its most vulnerable spot.
48%	othering			He destroyed its greatest buildings.
49%	elevation			Praise be to God.
49%				Here is the United States.
49%	othering			It was filled with terror from its north to its south and from its east to its west.
49%				Praise be to God.
49%				What the United States tastes today is a very small thing compared to what we have tasted for tens of years.
49%			expressing negativity of the ingroup	Our nation has been tasting this humiliation and contempt for more than 80 years.
49%			expressing negativity of the ingroup	"Its sons are being killed, its blood is being shed, its holy places are being attacked, and it is not being ruled according to what God has decreed."
50%				"Despite this, nobody cares."
50%	othering			"When Almighty God has rendered successful a convoy of Muslims, the vanguards of Islam, He allowed them to destroy the United States."
50%				I ask God Almighty to elevate their status and grant them Paradise.
50%				He is the one who is capable to do so.
50%				"When these defended their oppressed sons, brothers, and sisters in Palestine and in many Islamic countries, the world at large shouted."
50%				"The infidels shouted, followed by the hypocrites."
50%				One million Iraqi children have thus far died in Iraq although they did not do anything wrong.
51%				"Despite this, we heard no denunciation by anyone in the world or a fatwa by the rulers' ulema."
51%	othering			"Israeli tanks and tracked vehicles also enter to wreak havoc in Palestine, in Janin, Ramallah, Rafah, Bayt Jala, and other Islamic areas and we hear no voices raised or moves made."
51%	othering			"But if the sword falls on the United States after 80 years, hypocrisy raises its head lamenting the deaths of these killers who tampered with the blood, honor, and holy places of the Muslims."
51%	othering			The least that one can describe these people is that they are morally depraved.
51%	othering			"They champion falsehood, support the butcher against the victim, the oppressor against the innocent child"
51%	othering			May God mete them the punishment they deserve.
51%				I say that the matter is clear and explicit.
52%	othering			"In the aftermath of this event and now that senior US officials have spoken, beginning with Bush, the head of the world's infidels, and whoever supports him, every Muslim should rush to defend his religion."
52%	othering			They came out in arrogance with their men and horses and instigated even those countries that belong to Islam against us.
52%				They came out to fight this group of people who declared their faith in God and refused to abandon their religion.
52%				They came out to fight Islam [words indistinct] in the name of terrorism.
52%				"Hundreds of thousands of people, young and old, were killed in the farthest point on earth in Japan."
52%				"[For them] this is not a crime, but rather a debatable issue."
52%	othering			They bombed Iraq and considered that a debatable issue.
53%	othering			"But when a dozen people of them were killed in Nairobi and Dar Al-Salam, Afghanistan and Iraq were bombed and all hypocrite ones stood behind the head of the world's infidelity, behind the Hubal [one of the main idols worshipped by pagans before the advent of Islam] of the age; namely, America and its supporters."
53%				"These incidents divided the entire world into two regions - one of faith where there is no hypocrisy and another of infidelity, from which we hope God will protect us."
53%				"The winds of faith and change have blown to remove falsehood from the [Arabian] peninsula of Prophet Muhammad, may God's prayers be upon him."
53%				"As for the United States, I tell it and its people these few words: I swear by Almighty God who raised the heavens without pillars that neither the United States nor he who lives in the United States will enjoy security before we can see it as a reality in Palestine and before all the infidel armies leave the land of Muhammad, may God's peace and blessing be upon him."
53%				God is great and glory to Islam.
53%				"May God's peace, mercy, and blessings be upon you"
53%				"Here is America struck by God Almighty in one of its vital organs, so that its greatest buildings are destroyed."
53%				Grace and gratitude to God.
54%				"America has been filled with horror from north to south and east to west, and thanks be to God."
54%				What America is tasting now is only a copy of what we have tasted.
54%			expressing negativity of the ingroup	"Our Islamic nation has been tasting the same for more than 80 years of humiliation and disgrace, its sons killed and their blood spilled, its sanctities desecrated."
54%	othering			"God has blessed a group of vanguard Muslims, the forefront of Islam, to destroy America."
54%	othering			"May God bless them and allot them a supreme place in heaven, for he is the only one capable and entitled to do so."
54%			implicit othering	"When those have stood in defense of their weak children, their brothers and sisters in Palestine and other Muslim nations, the whole world went into an uproar, the infidels followed by the hypocrites."
54%				"A million innocent children are dying at this time as we speak, killed in Iraq without any guilt."
55%				"We hear no denunciation, we hear no edict from the hereditary rulers."
55%				"In these days, Israeli tanks rampage across Palestine, in Ramallah, Rafah and Beit Jala and many other parts of the land of Islam [dar al-Islam], and we do not hear anyone raising his voice or reacting."
55%				"But when the sword fell upon America after 80 years, hypocrisy raised its head up high bemoaning those killers who toyed with the blood, honor and sanctities of Muslims."
55%	othering			The least that can be said about those hypocrites is that they are apostates who followed the wrong path.
55%	othering			"They backed the butcher against the victim, the oppressor against the innocent child."
55%	othering			I seek refuge in God against them and ask him to let us see them in what they deserve.
55%				I say that the matter is very clear.
56%				"Every Muslim, after this event, after the senior officials in the United States of America starting with the head of international infidels."
56%				"Bush and his staff who went on a display of vanity with their men and horses, those who turned even the countries that believe in Islam against us - the group that resorted to God, the Almighty, the group that refuses to be subdued in its religion."
56%				They have been telling the world falsehoods that they are fighting terrorism.
56%				"In a nation at the far end of the world, Japan, hundreds of thousands, young and old, were killed and this is not a world crime."
56%				To them it is not a clear issue.
56%				"A million children in Iraq, to them this is not a clear issue."
56%				"But when a few more than 10 were killed in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam, Afghanistan and Iraq were bombed and hypocrisy stood behind the head of international infidels: the modern world's symbol of paganism, America, and its allies."
57%				"I tell them that these events have divided the world into two camps, the camp of the faithful and the camp of infidels."
57%				May God shield us and you from them.
57%	elevation			Every Muslim must rise to defend his religion.
57%				"The wind of faith is blowing and the wind of change is blowing to remove evil from the Peninsula of Muhammad, peace be upon him."
57%	othering	hostile		"As to America, I say to it and its people a few words: I swear to God that America will not live in peace before peace reigns in Palestine, and before all the army of infidels depart the land of Muhammad, peace be upon him."
57%	elevation			God is the greatest and glory be to Islam.
57%				"In the Name of Allah, the Most Gracious, the Most Merciful, ""Permission to fight (against disbelievers) is given to those (believers) who are fought against, because they have been wronged and surely, Allah is Able to give them (believers) victory"""
58%				[Quran 22:39]
58%				"""Those who believe, fight in the Cause of Allah, and those who disbelieve, fight in the cause of Taghut (anything worshipped other than Allah e.g. Satan)."
58%				"So fight you against the friends of Satan; ever feeble is indeed the plot of Satan."""
58%				[Quran 4:76]  Some American writers have published articles under the title 'On what basis are we fighting?'
58%				"These articles have generated a number of responses, some of which adhered to the truth and were based on Islamic Law, and others which have not."
58%				"Here we wanted to outline the truth - as an explanation and warning - hoping for Allah's reward, seeking success and support from Him."
58%				"While seeking Allah's help, we form our reply based on two questions directed at the Americans:  (Q1) Why are we fighting and opposing you?"
58%				(Q2)
59%				"What are we calling you to, and what do we want from you?"
59%				As for the first question: Why are we fighting and opposing you?
59%				The answer is very simple:  (1) Because you attacked us and continue to attack us.
59%				a)
59%	othering			You attacked us in Palestine:
59%				"(i) Palestine, which has sunk under military occupation for more than 80 years."
59%	othering	Anti-Semetic		"The British handed over Palestine, with your help and your support, to the Jews, who have occupied it for more than 50 years; years overflowing with oppression, tyranny, crimes, killing, expulsion, destruction and devastation."
60%	othering			"The creation and continuation of Israel is one of the greatest crimes, and you are the leaders of its criminals."
60%				"And of course, there is no need to explain and prove the degree of American support for Israel."
60%	othering			The creation of Israel is a crime which must be erased.
60%				"Each and every person whose hands have become polluted in the contribution towards this crime must pay its price, and pay for it heavily."
60%				(ii)
60%	othering	Anti-Semetic		"It brings us both laughter and tears to see that you have not yet tired of repeating your fabricated lies that the Jews have a historical right to Palestine, as it was promised to them in the Torah."
60%				Anyone who disputes with them on this alleged fact is accused of anti-Semitism.
61%				"This is one of the most fallacious, widely circulated fabrications in history."
61%				The people of Palestine are pure Arabs and original Semites.
61%	elevation			It is the Muslims who are the inheritors of Moses (peace be upon him) and the inheritors of the real Torah that has not been changed.
61%	elevation			"Muslims believe in all of the Prophets, including Abraham, Moses, Jesus and Muhammad, peace and blessings of Allah be upon them all."
61%				"If the followers of Moses have been promised a right to Palestine in the Torah, then the Muslims are the most worthy nation of this."
61%	elevation			"When the Muslims conquered Palestine and drove out the Romans, Palestine and Jerusalem returned to Islam, the religion of all the Prophets peace be upon them."
61%				"Therefore, the call to a historical right to Palestine cannot be raised against the Islamic Ummah that believes in all the Prophets of Allah (peace and blessings be upon them) - and we make no distinction between them."
62%				(iii)
62%				The blood pouring out of Palestine must be equally revenged.
62%				You must know that the Palestinians do not cry alone; their women are not widowed alone; their sons are not orphaned alone.
62%	othering			"(b) You attacked us in Somalia; you supported the Russian atrocities against us in Chechnya, the Indian oppression against us in Kashmir, and the Jewish aggression against us in Lebanon."
62%				(c)
62%				"Under your supervision, consent and orders, the governments of our countries which act as your agents, attack us on a daily basis;  (i)"
62%	othering			"These governments prevent our people from establishing the Islamic Shariah, using violence and lies to do so."
63%				(ii)
63%	othering			"These governments give us a taste of humiliation, and places us in a large prison of fear and subdual."
63%				(iii)
63%	othering			These governments steal our Ummah's wealth and sell them to you at a paltry price.
63%				(iv)
63%	othering	Anti-Semetic		"These governments have surrendered to the Jews, and handed them most of Palestine, acknowledging the existence of their state over the dismembered limbs of their own people."
63%				(v)
64%				"The removal of these governments is an obligation upon us, and a necessary step to free the Ummah, to make the Shariah the supreme law and to regain Palestine."
64%	othering	hostile		And our fight against these governments is not separate from out fight against you.
64%				(d)
64%	othering			You steal our wealth and oil at paltry prices because of your international influence and military threats.
64%				This theft is indeed the biggest theft ever witnessed by mankind in the history of the world.
64%				(e)
64%	othering	Anti-Semetic		"Your forces occupy our countries; you spread your military bases throughout them; you corrupt our lands, and you besiege our sanctities, to protect the security of the Jews and to ensure the continuity of your pillage of our treasures."
64%	othering			"(f) You have starved the Muslims of Iraq, where children die every day."
65%	othering			"It is a wonder that more than 1.5 million Iraqi children have died as a result of your sanctions, and you did not show concern."
65%				"Yet when 3000 of your people died, the entire world rises and has not yet sat down."
65%				"(g) You have supported the Jews in their idea that Jerusalem is their eternal capital, and agreed to move your embassy there."
65%				"With your help and under your protection, the Israelis are planning to destroy the Al-Aqsa mosque."
65%	othering			"Under the protection of your weapons, Sharon entered the Al-Aqsa mosque, to pollute it as a preparation to capture and destroy it."
65%				-2
65%	othering			These tragedies and calamities are only a few examples of your oppression and aggression against us.
66%				It is commanded by our religion and intellect that the oppressed have a right to return the aggression.
66%				"Do not await anything from us but Jihad, resistance and revenge."
66%				"Is it in any way rational to expect that after America has attacked us for more than half a century, that we will then leave her to live in security and peace?!!"
66%				-3
66%				"You may then dispute that all the above does not justify aggression against civilians, for crimes they did not commit and offenses in which they did not partake:   (a)"
66%	othering		negation sentence	"This argument contradicts your continuous repetition that America is the land of freedom, and its leaders in this world."
66%				"Therefore, the American people are the ones who choose their government by way of their own free will; a choice which stems from their agreement to its policies."
67%	othering			"Thus the American people have chosen, consented to, and affirmed their support for the Israeli oppression of the Palestinians, the occupation and usurpation of their land, and its continuous killing, torture, punishment and expulsion of the Palestinians."
67%				The American people have the ability and choice to refuse the policies of their Government and even to change it if they want.
67%				(b)
67%	othering			"The American people are the ones who pay the taxes which fund the planes that bomb us in Afghanistan, the tanks that strike and destroy our homes in Palestine, the armies which occupy our lands in the Arabian Gulf, and the feats which ensure the blockade of Iraq."
67%	othering			These tax dollars are given to Israel for it to continue to attack us and penetrate our lands.
67%	othering			"So the American people are the ones who fund the attacks against us, and they are the ones who oversee the expenditure of these monies in the way they wish, through their elected candidates."
67%				(c)
68%				Also the American army is part of the American people.
68%	othering			It is this very same people who are shamelessly helping the Jews fight against us.
68%				(d)
68%	othering			The American people are the ones who employ both their men and their women in the American Forces which attack us.
68%				(e)
68%	othering			This is why the American people cannot be not innocent of all the crimes committed by the Americans and Jews against us.
68%				"(f) Allah, the Almighty, legislated the permission and the option to take revenge."
69%	elevation			"Thus, if we are attacked, then we have the right to attack back."
69%		hostile		"Whoever has destroyed our villages and towns, then we have the right to destroy their villages and towns."
69%		hostile		"Whoever has stolen our wealth, then we have the right to destroy their economy."
69%		hostile		"And whoever has killed our civilians, then we have the right to kill theirs."
69%				The American Government and press still refuses to answer the question:
69%				Why did they attack us in New York and Washington?
69%				"If Sharon is a man of peace in the eyes of Bush, then we are also men of peace!!!"
69%	othering			"America does not understand the language of manners and principles, so we are addressing it using the language it understands."
70%				(Q2)
70%				"As for the second question that we want to answer: What are we calling you to, and what do we want from you?"
70%				-1
70%				The first thing that we are calling you to is Islam.
70%				(a)
70%	elevation			"The religion of the Unification of God; of freedom from associating partners with Him, and rejection of this; of complete love of Him, the Exalted; of complete submission to His Laws; and of the discarding of all the opinions, orders, theories and religions which contradict with the religion He sent down to His Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him)."
70%	elevation			"Islam is the religion of all the prophets, and makes no distinction between them - peace be upon them all."
71%			elevating the religion rather than a person	It is to this religion that we call you; the seal of all the previous religions.
71%			elevating the religion rather than a person	"It is the religion of Unification of God, sincerity, the best of manners, righteousness, mercy, honour, purity, and piety."
71%			elevating the religion rather than a person	"It is the religion of showing kindness to others, establishing justice between them, granting them their rights, and defending the oppressed and the persecuted."
71%			elevating the religion rather than a person	"It is the religion of enjoining the good and forbidding the evil with the hand, tongue and heart."
71%			elevating the religion rather than a person	It is the religion of Jihad in the way of Allah so that Allah's Word and religion reign Supreme.
71%			elevating the religion rather than a person	"And it is the religion of unity and agreement on the obedience to Allah, and total equality between all people, without regarding their colour, sex, or language."
71%				(b)
72%				"It is the religion whose book - the Quran - will remained preserved and unchanged, after the other Divine books and messages have been changed."
72%				The Quran is the miracle until the Day of Judgment.
72%				Allah has challenged anyone to bring a book like the Quran or even ten verses like it.
72%				-2
72%	othering			"The second thing we call you to, is to stop your oppression, lies, immorality and debauchery that has spread among you."
72%				(a)
72%			Value Judgement	"We call you to be a people of manners, principles, honour, and purity; to reject the immoral acts of fornication, homosexuality, intoxicants, gambling's, and trading with interest."
73%	othering			"We call you to all of this that you may be freed from that which you have become caught up in; that you may be freed from the deceptive lies that you are a great nation, that your leaders spread amongst you to conceal from you the despicable state to which you have reached."
73%				(b)
73%	othering			It is saddening to tell you that you are the worst civilization witnessed by the history of mankind:
73%				(i)
73%				"You are the nation who, rather than ruling by the Shariah of Allah in its Constitution and Laws, choose to invent your own laws as you will and desire."
73%				"You separate religion from your policies, contradicting the pure nature which affirms Absolute Authority to the Lord and your Creator."
73%				You fee from the embarrassing question posed to you:
74%				"How is it possible for Allah the Almighty to create His creation, grant them power over all the creatures and land, grant them all the amenities of life, and then deny them that which they are most in need of: knowledge of the laws which govern their lives?"
74%				(ii)
74%	othering		Value Judgement	"You are the nation that permits Usury, which has been forbidden by all the religions."
74%	othering			Yet you build your economy and investments on Usury.
74%	othering	Anti-Semetic		"As a result of this, in all its different forms and guises, the Jews have taken control of your economy, through which they have then taken control of your media, and now control all aspects of your life making you their servants and achieving their aims at your expense; precisely what Benjamin Franklin warned you against."
74%				(iii)
74%	othering			"You are a nation that permits the production, trading and usage of intoxicants."
75%			Value Judgement	"You also permit drugs, and only forbid the trade of them, even though your nation is the largest consumer of them."
75%	othering			"(iv) You are a nation that permits acts of immorality, and you consider them to be pillars of personal freedom."
75%	othering			"You have continued to sink down this abyss from level to level until incest has spread amongst you, in the face of which neither your sense of honour nor your laws object."
75%	othering			Who can forget your President Clinton's immoral acts committed in the official Oval office?
75%				"After that you did not even bring him to account, other than that he 'made a mistake', after which everything passed with no punishment."
75%				Is there a worse kind of event for which your name will go down in history and remembered by nations?
75%			Value Judgement	(v) You are a nation that permits gambling in its all forms.
75%	othering			"The companies practice this as well, resulting in the investments becoming active and the criminals becoming rich."
76%				(vi)
76%	othering			You are a nation that exploits women like consumer products or advertising tools calling upon customers to purchase them.
76%			Value Judgement	"You use women to serve passengers, visitors, and strangers to increase your profit margins."
76%	othering			You then rant that you support the liberation of women.
76%				(vii)
76%			Value Judgement	"You are a nation that practices the trade of sex in all its forms, directly and indirectly."
76%				"Giant corporations and establishments are established on this, under the name of art, entertainment, tourism and freedom, and other deceptive names you attribute to it."
77%				(viii)
77%				"And because of all this, you have been described in history as a nation that spreads diseases that were unknown to man in the past."
77%	othering			"Go ahead and boast to the nations of man, that you brought them AIDS as a Satanic American Invention."
77%				(xi)
77%	othering			You have destroyed nature with your industrial waste and gases more than any other nation in history.
77%	othering			"Despite this, you refuse to sign the Kyoto agreement so that you can secure the profit of your greedy companies and industries."
77%			Value Judgement	"(x) Your law is the law of the rich and wealthy people, who hold sway in their political parties, and fund their election campaigns with their gifts."
78%	othering	Anti-Semetic		"Behind them stand the Jews, who control your policies, media and economy."
78%				(xi)
78%				"That which you are singled out for in the history of mankind, is that you have used your force to destroy mankind more than any other nation in history; not to defend principles and values, but to hasten to secure your interests and profits."
78%				"You who dropped a nuclear bomb on Japan, even though Japan was ready to negotiate an end to the war."
78%	othering			"How many acts of oppression, tyranny and injustice have you carried out, O callers to freedom?"
78%	othering			(xii) Let us not forget one of your major characteristics: your duality in both manners and values; your hypocrisy in manners and principles.
78%				"All manners, principles and values have two scales: one for you and one for the others."
79%				(a)
79%	othering			"The freedom and democracy that you call to is for yourselves and for white race only; as for the rest of the world, you impose upon them your monstrous, destructive policies and Governments, which you call the 'American friends'."
79%	othering			Yet you prevent them from establishing democracies.
79%	othering			"When the Islamic party in Algeria wanted to practice democracy and they won the election, you unleashed your agents in the Algerian army onto them, and to attack them with tanks and guns, to imprison them and torture them - a new lesson from the 'American book of democracy'!!!"
79%				(b)
79%			Value Judgement	Your policy on prohibiting and forcibly removing weapons of mass destruction to ensure world peace: it only applies to those countries which you do not permit to possess such weapons.
79%			Value Judgement	"As for the countries you consent to, such as Israel, then they are allowed to keep and use such weapons to defend their security."
80%				"Anyone else who you suspect might be manufacturing or keeping these kinds of weapons, you call them criminals and you take military action against them."
80%				(c)
80%	othering			"You are the last ones to respect the resolutions and policies of International Law, yet you claim to want to selectively punish anyone else who does the same."
80%			Value Judgement	Israel has for more than 50 years been pushing UN resolutions and rules against the wall with the full support of America.
80%				(d)
80%				As for the war criminals which you censure and form criminal courts for - you shamelessly ask that your own are granted immunity!!
80%	othering		Allegations of war crime	"However, history will not forget the war crimes that you committed against the Muslims and the rest of the world; those you have killed in Japan, Afghanistan, Somalia, Lebanon and Iraq will remain a shame that you will never be able to escape."
81%				"It will suffice to remind you of your latest war crimes in Afghanistan, in which densely populated innocent civilian villages were destroyed, bombs were dropped on mosques causing the roof of the mosque to come crashing down on the heads of the Muslims praying inside."
81%	othering			"You are the ones who broke the agreement with the Mujahideen when they left Qunduz, bombing them in Jangi fort, and killing more than 1,000 of your prisoners through suffocation and thirst."
81%	othering			Allah alone knows how many people have died by torture at the hands of you and your agents.
81%				"Your planes remain in the Afghan skies, looking for anyone remotely suspicious."
81%				"(e) You have claimed to be the vanguards of Human Rights, and your Ministry of Foreign affairs issues annual reports containing statistics of those countries that violate any Human Rights."
81%			Implicit	"However, all these things vanished when the Mujahideen hit you, and you then implemented the methods of the same documented governments that you used to curse."
81%			Implicit	"In America, you captured thousands the Muslims and Arabs, took them into custody with neither reason, court trial, nor even disclosing their names."
81%				"You issued newer, harsher laws."
82%	othering			"What happens in Guantanamo is a historical embarrassment to America and its values, and it screams into your faces - you hypocrites, ""What is the value of your signature on any agreement or treaty?"""
82%	othering			"(3) What we call you to thirdly is to take an honest stance with yourselves - and I doubt you will do so - to discover that you are a nation without principles or manners, and that the values and principles to you are something which you merely demand from others, not that which you yourself must adhere to."
82%				-4
82%				"We also advise you to stop supporting Israel, and to end your support of the Indians in Kashmir, the Russians against the Chechens and to also cease supporting the Manila Government against the Muslims in Southern Philippines."
82%				-5
82%				We also advise you to pack your luggage and get out of our lands.
82%		Hostile		"We desire for your goodness, guidance, and righteousness, so do not force us to send you back as cargo in coffins."
83%				"(6) Sixthly, we call upon you to end your support of the corrupt leaders in our countries."
83%				Do not interfere in our politics and method of education.
83%		Hostile		"Leave us alone, or else expect us in New York and Washington."
83%				-7
83%	othering	Anti-Semetic		"We also call you to deal with us and interact with us on the basis of mutual interests and benefits, rather than the policies of sub dual, theft and occupation, and not to continue your policy of supporting the Jews because this will result in more disasters for you."
83%		Hostile		"If you fail to respond to all these conditions, then prepare for fight with the Islamic Nation."
83%				"The Nation of Monotheism, that puts complete trust on Allah and fears none other than Him."
84%				"The Nation which is addressed by its Quran with the words:  ""Do you fear them?"
84%				Allah has more right that you should fear Him if you are believers.
84%				Fight against them so that Allah will punish them by your hands and disgrace them and give you victory over them and heal the breasts of believing people.
84%				And remove the anger of their (believers') hearts.
84%				Allah accepts the repentance of whom He wills.
84%				"Allah is All-Knowing, All-Wise."""
84%				[Quran9:13-1]
85%				"The Nation of honour and respect: ""But honour, power and glory belong to Allah, and to His Messenger (Muhammad peace be upon him) and to the believers."""
85%				[Quran 63:8]
85%				"""So do not become weak (against your enemy), nor be sad, and you will be superior (in victory) if you are indeed (true) believers"" [Quran 3:139]"
85%				"The Nation of Martyrdom; the Nation that desires death more than you desire life:  ""Think not of those who are killed in the way of Allah as dead."
85%				"Nay, they are alive with their Lord, and they are being provided for."
85%				"They rejoice in what Allah has bestowed upon them from His bounty and rejoice for the sake of those who have not yet joined them, but are left behind (not yet martyred) that on them no fear shall come, nor shall they grieve."
85%				"They rejoice in a grace and a bounty from Allah, and that Allah will not waste the reward of the believers."""
86%				[Quran 3:169-171]
86%	elevation			The Nation of victory and success that Allah has promised:
86%				"""It is He Who has sent His Messenger (Muhammad peace be upon him) with guidance and the religion of truth (Islam), to make it victorious over all other religions even though the Polytheists hate it."""
86%				[Quran 61:9]
86%				"""Allah has decreed that 'Verily it is I and My Messengers who shall be victorious."
86%				"Verily Allah is All-Powerful, All-Mighty."""
86%				[Quran 58:21]
86%	elevation			"The Islamic Nation that was able to dismiss and destroy the previous evil Empires like yourself; the Nation that rejects your attacks, wishes to remove your evils, and is prepared to fight you."
87%	othering			"You are well aware that the Islamic Nation, from the very core of its soul, despises your haughtiness and arrogance."
87%	othering			"If the Americans refuse to listen to our advice and the goodness, guidance and righteousness that we call them to, then be aware that you will lose this Crusade Bush began, just like the other previous Crusades in which you were humiliated by the hands of the Mujahideen, feeing to your home in great silence and disgrace."
87%		Hostile		"If the Americans do not respond, then their fate will be that of the Soviets who fed from Afghanistan to deal with their military defeat, political breakup, ideological downfall, and economic bankruptcy."
87%				"This is our message to the Americans, as an answer to theirs."
87%				"Do they now know why we fight them and over which form of ignorance, by the permission of Allah, we shall be victorious?"
87%				Praise be to Allah who created the creation for his worship and commanded them to be just and permitted the wronged one to retaliate against the oppressor in kind.
87%				"To proceed: Peace be upon he who follows the guidance: People of America this talk of mine is for you and concerns the ideal way to prevent another Manhattan, and deals with the war and its causes and results."
88%				"Before I begin, I say to you that security is an indispensable pillar of human life and that free men do not forfeit their security, contrary to Bush's claim that we hate freedom."
88%				"If so, then let him explain to us why we don't strike for example - Sweden?"
88%				"And we know restore freedom to our nation, just as you lay waste to our nation."
88%		Hostile		So shall we lay waste to yours.
88%				No one except a dumb thief plays with the security of others and then makes himself believe he will be secure.
88%				"Whereas thinking people, when disaster strikes, make it their priority to look for its causes, in order to prevent it happening again."
88%				But I am amazed at you.
89%				"Even though we are in the fourth year after the events of September 11th, Bush is still engaged in distortion, deception and hiding from you the real causes."
89%				"And thus, the reasons are still there for a repeat of what occurred."
89%				"So I shall talk to you about the story behind those events and shall tell you truthfully about the moments in which the decision was taken, for you to consider."
89%				"I say to you, Allah knows that it had never occurred to us to strike the towers."
89%	othering			"But after it became unbearable and we witnessed the oppression and tyranny of the American/Israeli coalition against our people in Palestine and Lebanon, it came to my mind."
89%	othering		Value Judgement	The events that affected my soul in a direct way started in 1982 when America permitted the Israelis to invade Lebanon and the American Sixth Fleet helped them in that.
89%			inciting horror	This bombardment began and many were killed and injured and others were terrorised and displaced.
90%			inciting horror	"I couldn't forget those moving scenes, blood and severed limbs, women and children sprawled everywhere."
90%			inciting horror	"Houses destroyed along with their occupants and high rises demolished over their residents, rockets raining down on our home without mercy."
90%				"The situation was like a crocodile meeting a helpless child, powerless except for his screams."
90%				Does the crocodile understand a conversation that doesn't include a weapon?
90%				And the whole world saw and heard
90%				but it didn't respond.
90%				"In those difficult moments many hard-to-describe ideas bubbled in my soul, but in the end they produced an intense feeling of rejection of tyranny, and gave birth to a strong resolve to punish the oppressors."
91%				"And as I looked at those demolished towers in Lebanon, it entered my mind that we should punish the oppressor in kind and that we should destroy towers in America in order that they taste some of what we tasted and so that they be deterred from killing our women and children."
91%	othering			"And that day, it was confirmed to me that oppression and the intentional killing of innocent women and children is a deliberate American policy."
91%			Interesting contrast of ideologies	"Destruction is freedom and democracy, while resistance is terrorism and intolerance."
91%	othering			"This means the oppressing and embargoing to death of millions as Bush Sr did in Iraq in the greatest mass slaughter of children mankind has ever known, and it means the throwing of millions of pounds of bombs and explosives at millions of children - also in Iraq - as Bush Jr did, in order to remove an old agent and replace him with a new puppet to assist in the pilfering of Iraq's oil and other outrages."
91%				"So with these images and their like as their background, the events of September 11th came as a reply to those great wrongs, should a man be blamed for defending his sanctuary?"
91%				"Is defending oneself and punishing the aggressor in kind, objectionable terrorism?"
91%				"If it is such, then it is unavoidable for us."
92%				"This is the message which I sought to communicate to you in word and deed, repeatedly, for years before September 11th."
92%				"And you can read this, if you wish, in my interview with Scott in Time magazine in 1996, or with Peter Arnett on CNN in 1997, or my meeting with John Weiner in 1998."
92%				"You can observe it practically, if you wish, in Kenya and Tanzania and in Aden."
92%				"And you can read it in my interview with Abdul Bari Atwan, as well as my interviews with Robert Fisk."
92%				The latter is one of your compatriots and co-religionists and I consider him to be neutral.
92%				So are the pretenders of freedom at the White House and the channels controlled by them able to run an interview with him?
92%				So that he may relay to the American people what he has understood from us to be the reasons for our fight against you?
92%				"If you were to avoid these reasons, you will have taken the correct path that will lead America to the security that it was in before September 11th."
93%				This concerned the causes of the war.
93%				"As for it's results, they have been, by the grace of Allah, positive and enormous, and have, by all standards, exceeded all expectations."
93%				"This is due to many factors, chief among them, that we have found it difficult to deal with the Bush administration in light of the resemblance it bears to the regimes in our countries, half of which are ruled by the military and the other half which are ruled by the sons of kings and presidents."
93%				"Our experience with them is lengthy, and both types are replete with those who are characterised by pride, arrogance, greed and misappropriation of wealth."
93%				This resemblance began after the visits of Bush Sr to the region.
93%				"At a time when some of our compatriots were dazzled by America and hoping that these visits would have an effect on our countries, all of a sudden he was affected by those monarchies and military regimes, and became envious of their remaining decades in their positions, to embezzle the public wealth of the nation without supervision or accounting."
93%	othering			"So he took dictatorship and suppression of freedoms to his son and they named it the Patriot Act, under the pretence of fighting terrorism."
94%	othering			"In addition, Bush sanctioned the installing of sons as state governors, and didn't forget to import expertise in election fraud from the region's presidents to Florida to be made use of in moments of difficulty."
94%				All that we have mentioned has made it easy for us to provoke and bait this administration.
94%	othering			"All that we have to do is to send two mujahidin to the furthest point east to raise a piece of cloth on which is written al-Qaida, in order to make the generals race there to cause America to suffer human, economic, and political losses without their achieving for it anything of note other than some benefits for their private companies."
94%				"This is in addition to our having experience in using guerrilla warfare and the war of attrition to fight tyrannical superpowers, as we, alongside the mujahidin, bled Russia for 10 years, until it went bankrupt and was forced to withdraw in defeat."
94%				All Praise is due to Allah.
94%	othering			So we are continuing this policy in bleeding America to the point of bankruptcy.
94%				"Allah willing, and nothing is too great for Allah."
95%				"That being said, those who say that al-Qaida has won against the administration in the White House or that the administration has lost in this war have not been precise, because when one scrutinises the results, one cannot say that al-Qaida is the sole factor in achieving those spectacular gains."
95%				"Rather, the policy of the White House that demands the opening of war fronts to keep busy their various corporations - whether they be working in the field of arms or oil or reconstruction - has helped al-Qaida to achieve these enormous results."
95%				"And so it has appeared to some analysts and diplomats that the White House and us are playing as one team towards the economic goals of the United States, even if the intentions differ."
95%				And it was to these sorts of notions and their like that the British diplomat and others were referring in their lectures at the Royal Institute of International Affairs.
95%				"[When they pointed out that] for example, al-Qaida spent $500,000 on the event, while America, in the incident and its aftermath, lost - according to the lowest estimate - more than $500 billion."
95%			mockery	"Meaning that every dollar of al-Qaida defeated a million dollars by the permission of Allah, besides the loss of a huge number of jobs."
95%				"As for the size of the economic deficit, it has reached record astronomical numbers estimated to total more than a trillion dollars."
96%				"And even more dangerous and bitter for America is that the mujahidin recently forced Bush to resort to emergency funds to continue the fight in Afghanistan and Iraq, which is evidence of the success of the bleed-until-bankruptcy plan - with Allah's permission."
96%	othering			"It is true that this shows that al-Qaida has gained, but on the other hand, it shows that the Bush administration has also gained, something of which anyone who looks at the size of the contracts acquired by the shady Bush administration - linked mega - corporations, like Halliburton and its kind, will be convinced."
96%	othering			And it all shows that the real loser is ... you.
96%				It is the American people and their economy.
96%				"And for the record, we had agreed with the Commander-General"
96%				"Muhammad Ataa, Allah have mercy on him, that all the operations should be carried out within 20 minutes, before Bush and his administration notice."
96%				"It never occurred to us that the commander-in-chief of the American armed forces would abandon 50,000 of his citizens in the twin towers to face those great horrors alone, the time when they most needed him."
97%				"But because it seemed to him that occupying himself by talking to the little girl about the goat and its butting was more important than occupying himself with the planes and their butting of the skyscrapers, we were given three times the period required to execute the operations -"
97%				all praise is due to Allah.
97%				"And it's no secret to you that the thinkers and perceptive ones from among the Americans warned Bush before the war and told him: ""All that you want for securing America and removing the weapons of mass destruction - assuming they exist - is available to you, and the nations of the world are with you in the inspections, and it is in the interest of America that it not be thrust into an unjustified war with an unknown outcome."""
97%				"But the darkness of the black gold blurred his vision and insight, and he gave priority to private interests over the public interests of America."
97%	othering			"So the war went ahead, the death toll rose, the American economy bled, and Bush became embroiled in the swamps of Iraq that threaten his future."
97%				"He fits the saying ""like the naughty she-goat who used her hoof to dig up a knife from under the earth""."
97%				"So I say to you, over 15,000 of our people have been killed and tens of thousands injured, while more than a thousand of you have been killed and more than 10,000 injured."
97%	othering			"And Bush's hands are stained with the blood of all those killed from both sides, all for the sake of oil and keeping their private companies in business."
98%				"Be aware that it is the nation who punishes the weak man when he causes the killing of one of its citizens for money, while letting the powerful one get off, when he causes the killing of more than 1000 of its sons, also for money."
98%				And the same goes for your allies in Palestine.
98%	othering			"They terrorise the women and children, and kill and capture the men as they lie sleeping with their families on the mattresses, that you may recall that for every action, there is a reaction."
98%				"Finally, it behoves you to reflect on the last wills and testaments of the thousands who left you on the 11th as they gestured in despair."
98%				"They are important testaments, which should be studied and researched."
98%				"Among the most important of what I read in them was some prose in their gestures before the collapse, where they say: ""How mistaken we were to have allowed the White House to implement its aggressive foreign policies against the weak without supervision."""
98%				"It is as if they were telling you, the people of America:"
99%				"""Hold to account those who have caused us to be killed, and happy is he who learns from others' mistakes."""
99%				And among that which I read in their gestures is a verse of poetry.
99%				"""Injustice chases its people, and how unhealthy the bed of tyranny."""
99%				"As has been said: ""An ounce of prevention is better than a pound of cure."""
99%				"And know that: ""It is better to return to the truth than persist in error."""
99%				"And that the wise man doesn't squander his security, wealth and children for the sake of the liar in the White House."
99%				"In conclusion, I tell you in truth, that your security is not in the hands of Kerry, nor Bush, nor al-Qaida."
100%				No.
100%				Your security is in your own hands.
100%				And every state that doesn't play with our security has automatically guaranteed its own security.
100%	elevation			"And Allah is our Guardian and Helper, while you have no Guardian or Helper."
100%				All peace be upon he who follows the Guidance.
