A Message From Usama Bin Muhammad Bin Ladin unto His Muslim Brethren All Over The World Generally And In The Arabian Peninsula Specifically Praise be to Allah, we seek His help and ask for his pardon. We take refuge in Allah from the evil of ourselves and our bad deeds. Whoever been guided by Allah will not be misled, and who ever has been misled, he will never be guided. I bear witness that there is no God except Allah, no associates has He, and I bear witness that Muhammad is His slave and messenger.
"O you who believe! Be careful of your duty to Allah with the proper care which is due to Him, and do not die except as Muslim." (Imraan; 3:102). "O people, be careful of your duty to your Lord, Who created you from a single being and created its mate of the same kind, and spread from these two, many men and women; and be careful of your duty to Allah by whom you demand one of another your rights, and (be careful) to the ties of kinship; surely Allah ever watches over you." (An-Nisa; 4:1). "O you who believe! Be careful of your duty to Allah and speak the right word; He will put your deeds into a right state for you, and forgive you your faults; and who ever obeys Allah and his Apostle, he indeed achieves a mighty success." (Al-Ahzab; 33:70-71).
Praise be to Allah, reporting the saying of the prophet Shu'aib: "I desire nothing but reform so far as I am able, and with none but Allah is the direction of my affair to the right and successful path; on him do I rely and to him do I turn." (Hud; 11:88). Praise be to Allah, saying: "You are the best of the nations raised up for the benefit of men; you enjoin what is right and forbid the wrong and believe in Allah" (Aale Imraan; 3:110).
Allah's blessing and salutations on His slave and messenger, who said: "The people are close to an all-encompassing punishment from Allah if they see the oppressor and fail to restrain him." It should not be hidden from you that the people of Islam had suffered from aggression, iniquity and injustice imposed on them by the Zionist-Crusaders alliance and their collaborators; to the extent that the Muslims' blood became cheap and their wealth became as loot in the hands of the enemies. Their blood was spilled in Palestine and Iraq. The horrifying pictures of the massacre of Qana, in Lebanon, are still fresh in our memory. Massacres in Tajikistan, Burma, Kashmir, Assam, the Philippines, Fatani, Ogadin, Somalia, Eritria, Chechnya and in Bosnia and Herzegovina took place,massacres that send shivers through the body and shake the conscience. All of this the world watched and heard, yet not only didn't respond to these atrocities, but also, with a clear conspiracy between the USA and its allies and under the cover of the iniquitous United Nations, the dispossessed people were even prevented from obtaining arms to defend themselves.
The people of Islam awakened and realised that they are the main target for the aggression of the Zionist-Crusaders alliance. All false claims and propaganda about "Human Rights" were torn down and exposed by the massacres that took place against the Muslims in every part of the world. The latest and the greatest of these aggressions, the greatest incurred by the Muslims since the death of the Prophet (Allah's blessing and salutations on him) is the occupation of the land of the two Holy Places, the foundation of the House of Islam, the place of the revelation, the source of the message and the place of the noble Kaa'ba, the Qiblah of all Muslims, by the armies of the American Crusaders and their allies. We bemoan this and can only say: "No strength and no power acquired except through Allah."
Under the present circumstances, and under the banner of the blessed awakening which is sweeping the world in general and the Islamic world in particular, I meet with you today. And after a long absence, imposed on the scholars (Ulama) and callers (Da'ees) of Islam, by the iniquitous Crusaders movement under the leadership of the USA, who fears that they, the scholars and callers of Islam, will instigate the Ummah of Islam against its enemies as their ancestors, may Allah be pleased with them, like Ibn Taymiyyah and Al'iz Ibn Abd es-Salaam, did. And therefore, the Zionist/Crusader alliance resorted to killing and arresting the truthful Ulama and the working Da'ees (We are not praising or sanctifying them; Allah sanctify whom He pleased). They killed the Mujahid Sheikh Abdullah Azzam, and they arrested the Mujahid Sheikh Ahmad Yaseen and the Mujahid Sheikh Omar Abd ur-Rahman (in America).
By orders from the USA, a large number of scholars, Da'ees and young people were arrested in the land of the two Holy Places, among them the prominent Sheikh Salman Al Oud'a and Sheikh Safar Al-Hawali and their brothers. We bemoan this and can only say: "No strength and no power acquired except through Allah." We, myself and my group, have suffered some of this injustice ourselves; we have been prevented from addressing the Muslims. We have been pursued in Pakistan, Sudan and Afghanistan, hence this long absence on my part. But by the Grace of Allah, a safe base is now available in the high Hindukush mountains in Khurasan, where - by the Grace of Allah - the largest infidel military force of the world was destroyed. And the myth of the super power was withered in front of the Mujahideen cries of Allahu Akbar (God is greatest).
Today we work from the same mountains to lift the iniquity that has been imposed on the Ummah by the Zionist-Crusader alliance, particularly after they have occupied the blessed land around Jerusalem, route of the night-journey of the Prophet (Allah's blessing and salutations on him) and the land of the two Holy Places. We ask Allah to bestow us with victory; He is our Patron and He is the Most Capable. From here, today we begin the work of discussing the ways of correcting what has happened to the Islamic world in general, and the Land of the two Holy Places in particular. We wish to study the means that we could follow to return the situation to its normal path. And to return to the people their own rights, particularly after the large damages and the great aggression on the life and the religion of the people. An injustice that had affected every section and group of the people: the civilians, military and security men, government officials and merchants, the young and the old people, as well as schools and university students. Hundred of thousands of the unemployed graduates, who became the widest section of the society, were also affected.
Injustice had affected the people of the industry and agriculture. It affected the people of the rural and urban areas. And almost every body complained about something. The situation at the land of the two Holy places became like a huge volcano at the verge of eruption that would destroy the Kufr and the corruption and its sources. The explosion at Riyadh and Al-Khobar is a warning of this volcanic eruption emerging as a result of the severe oppression, suffering, excessive iniquity, humiliation and poverty.
People are fully concerned about their everyday living; everybody talks about the deterioration of the economy, inflation, ever-increasing debts, and jails full of prisoners. Government employees with limited income talk about debts of ten of thousands and hundred of thousands of Saudi riyals. They complain that the value of the riyal is greatly and continuously deteriorating among most of the main currencies. Great merchants and contractors speak about hundreds and thousands of millions of riyals owed to them by the government. More than three hundred forty billion riyals is owed by the government to the people in addition to the daily accumulated interest, let alone the foreign debt. People wonder, are we the largest oil exporting country? They even believe that this situation is a curse put on them by Allah for not objecting to the oppressive and illegitimate behaviour and measures of the ruling regime: Ignoring the divine Shari'ah law; depriving people of their legitimate rights; allowing the American to occupy the land of the two Holy Places; imprisonment, unjustly, of the sincere scholars.
The honourable Ulamah and scholars as well as merchants, economists and eminent people of the country were all alerted by this disastrous situation. Quick efforts were made by each group to contain and to correct the situation. All agreed that the country is heading toward a great catastrophe, the depth of which is not known except by Allah. One big merchant commented: "The king is leading the state into `sixty-six' fold disaster". We bemoan this and can only say: "No strength and no power acquired except through Allah". Numerous princes share with the people their feelings, privately expressing their concerns and objecting to the corruption, repression and the intimidation taking place in the country. But the competition between influential princes for personal gains and interest has destroyed the country.
Through its course of actions, the regime has torn off its shade of legitimacy:
1. Suspension of the Islamic Shari'ah law and exchanging it with man-made civil law. The regime entered into a bloody confrontation with the truthful Ulamah and the righteous youths. (We sanctify nobody; Allah sanctifies Whom He pleases.)
2. The inability of the regime to protect the country, and allowing the enemy of the Ummah, the American Crusader forces, to occupy the land for the longest of years. The Crusader forces became the main cause of our disastrous condition, particularly in the economical aspect of it, due to the unjustified heavy spending on these forces, and as a result of the policies imposed on the country, especially in the field of oil industry, where production is restricted or expanded and prices are fixed to suit the American economy, ignoring the economy of the country. Expensive deals were imposed on the country to purchase arms. People were asking, what is the justification for the very existence of the regime then?
3. Quick efforts were made by individuals and by different groups of the society to contain the situation and to prevent the danger. They advised the government both privately and openly; they send letters and poems, reports after reports, reminders after reminders, they explored every avenue and enlisted every influential man in their movement of reform and correction. They wrote with style of passion, diplomacy and wisdom asking for corrective measures and repentance from the "great wrong-doings and corruption" that had engulfed even the basic principles of the religion and the legitimate rights of the people. But to our deepest regret the regime refused to listen to the people, accusing them of being ridiculous and imbecile. The matter got worse as previous wrong-doings were followed by mischiefs of greater magnitudes. All of this taking place in the land of the two Holy Places! It is no longer possible to be quiet. It is not acceptable to give a blind eye to this matter.
As the extent of these infringements reached the highest of levels and evolved into destructive forces threatening the very existence of the Islamic principles, a group of scholars who could take no more, supported by hundreds of retired officials, merchants, prominent and educated people, wrote to the King asking for implementation of the corrective measures. In 1411 A.H. (May 1991), at the time of the Gulf War, a letter, the famous letter of Shawwaal, with over four hundred signatures, was sent to the king demanding the lifting of oppression and the implementation of corrective actions. The king humiliated those people and choose to ignore the content of their letter; and the very bad situation of the country became even worse. People, however, tried again and send more letters and petitions. One particular report, the glorious Memorandum Of Advice, was handed over to the king on Muharram, 1413 A.H (July 1992), which tackled the problem, pointed out the illness and prescribed the medicine in an original, righteous and scientific style. It described the gaps and the shortcoming in the philosophy of the regime and suggested the required course of action and remedy. The report gave a description of:
1. The intimidation and harassment suffered by the leaders of the society, the scholars, heads of tribes, merchants, academic teachers and other eminent individuals;
2. The situation of the law within the country and the arbitrary declaration of what is Halal and Haram (lawful and unlawful) regardless of the Shari'ah as instituted by Allah;
3. The state of the press and the media which became a tool of truth-hiding and misinformation; the media carried out the plan of the enemy of idolising a cult of certain personalities and spreading scandals among the believers to repel the people away from their religion. Allah, the Exalted said: "Surely as for those who love that scandal should circulate between the believers, they shall have a grievous chastisement in this world and in the Hereafter" (An-Noor, 24:19);
4. Abuse and confiscation of human rights;
5. The financial and economic situation of the country and the frightening future in view of the enormous amount of debts and interest owed by the government, this situation being left unresolved as the wealth of the Ummah was being wasted to satisfy personal desires of certain individuals, while more custom duties and taxes were being imposed on the nation. (The Prophet said about the woman who committed adultery brought herself to be stoned: "She repented in such a way sufficient to bring forgiveness to a custom collector!");
6. The miserable situation of the social services and infrastructure, especially the in the service and supply of water, the basic requirement of life;
7. The state of the ill-trained and ill-prepared army and the impotence of its commander-in-chief, despite the incredible amount of money that has been spent on the army. The Gulf War clearly exposed the situation;
8. Shari'ah law was suspended and man-made law was used instead;
9. And as far as the foreign policy was concerned, the report exposed not only how this policy has disregarded the Islamic issues and ignored the Muslims, but also how help and support were provided to the enemy against the Muslims; the cases of Gaza/Ariha and the Communists in the south of Yemen are still fresh in the memory, and more can be said.
As stated by the people of knowledge, it is not a secret that to use man-made law instead of the Shari'ah and to support the infidels against the Muslims is one of the ten "voiders" that would strip a person from his Islamic status (turn a Muslim into a Mushrik, non-believer status). The All-Mighty said: "And whoever did not judge by what Allah revealed, those are the unbelievers" (Al-Ma'idah 5:44), and "But no! By your Lord! They do not believe (in reality) until they make you a judge of that which has become a matter of disagreement among them, and then do not find the slightest misgiving in their hearts as to what you have decided and submit with entire submission." (An-Nisa 4:65)
In spite of the fact that the report was written with soft words and very diplomatic style, reminding of Allah, giving truthful sincere advice, and despite of the importance of advice in Islam being absolutely essential for those in charge of the people and the large number who signed this document as well as the large number of their supporters, all of that was not an intercession for the Memorandum. Its content was rejected and those who signed it and their sympathisers were ridiculed, prevented from travel, punished and even jailed. Therefore it is very clear that the advocates of correction and reform movement were very keen on using peaceful means in order to protect the unity of the country and to prevent blood shed. Why is it then the regime closed all peaceful routes and pushed the people toward armed actions, which is the only choice left for them to implement righteousness and justice? For whose benefit do Prince Sultan and Prince Nayeff push the country into a civil war that will destroy everything? And why do the Amirs consult those who ignites internal feuds, playing the people against each other and instigate the policemen, the sons of the nation, to abort the reform movement, yet leave in peace and security such traitors who implement the policy of the enemy in order to bleed the financial and the human resources of the Ummah, and leaving the main enemy in the area, the American/Zionist alliance, to enjoy peace and security?! The advisor (Zaki Badr, the ex-Egyptian minister of the interior) to Prince Nayeff, Saudi minister of interior, was not acceptable even to his own country; he was sacked from his position there due to the filthy attitude and the aggression he exercised on his own people, yet he was warmly welcomed by Prince Nayeff to assist in sins and aggressions. He unjustly filled the prisons with the best sons of this Ummah and caused miseries to their mothers. Does the regime want to play the civilians against their military personnel and vice versa, like what had happened in some of the neighbouring countries?!! No doubts this is the policy of the American/Israeli alliance as they are the first to benefit from this situation.
But with the grace of Allah, the majority of the nation, both civilians and military individuals, were aware of the wicked plan. They refused to be played against each others and to be used by the regime as a tool to carry out the policy of the American/Israeli alliance through their agent in our country: the Saudi regime. Therefore, everyone agreed that the situation can not be rectified unless the root of the problem is tackled (i.e.,the shadow cannot be straightened when its source, the rod, is not straight either). Hence it is essential to hit the main enemy who divided the Ummah into small and little countries and pushed it, for the last few decades, into a state of confusion. The Zionist/Crusader alliance moves quickly to contain and abort any "corrective movement" appearing in the Islamic countries. Different means and methods are used to achieve their target; on occasion, the "movement" is dragged into an armed struggle at a predetermined unfavourable time and place. Sometime officials from the Ministry of Interior, who are also graduates of the colleges of the Shari'ah, are leased out to mislead and confuse the nation and the Ummah (by wrong Fatwas) and to circulate false information about the movement. At other occasions some righteous people were tricked into a war of words against the Ulama and the leaders of the movement, wasting the energy of the nation in discussing minor issues and ignoring the main one; that is, the unification of the people under the divine law of Allah. In the shadow of these discussions and arguments, truthfulness is covered by falsehood, and personal feuds and partisanship created among the people increase the division and the weakness of the Ummah; priorities of the Islamic work are lost while the blasphemy and polytheism continues its grip and control over the Ummah. We should be alert to these atrocious plans carried out by the Ministry of Interior. The right answer is to follow what have been decided by the people of knowledge, as was said by Ibn Taymiyyah (Allah's mercy upon him): "People of Islam should join forces and support each other to get rid of the main Kufr that is controlling the countries of the Islamic world, even to bear the lesser damage to get rid of the major one, i.e., the great Kufr."
If there is more than one duty to be carried out, then the most important one should receive priority. Clearly after Belief (Imaan) there is no more important duty than pushing the American enemy out of the holy land. No other priority, except Belief, could be considered before it; the people of knowledge, as Ibn Taymiyyah said, stated: "To fight in defence of religion and Belief is a collective duty; there is no other duty after Belief than fighting the enemy who is corrupting the life and the religion. There is no preconditions for this duty and the enemy should be fought with one's best abilities." (ref: supplement of Fatawa). If it is not possible to push back the enemy except by the collective movement of the Muslim people, then there is a duty on the Muslims to ignore the minor differences among themselves; the ill effect of ignoring these differences, at a given period of time, is much less than the ill effect of the occupation of the Muslims' land by the larger Kufr. Ibn Taymiyyah had explained this issue and emphasized the importance of dealing with the major threat at the expense of the minor one. He described the situation of the Muslims and the Mujahideen and stated that even the military personnel who are not practising Islam are not exempted from the duty of Jihad against the enemy.
Ibn Taymiyyah, after mentioning the Mongols (Tatar) and their behaviour in changing the law of Allah, stated that, "The ultimate aim of pleasing Allah, raising His word, instituting His religion and obeying His messenger (Allah's blessing and salutations on him) is to fight the enemy, in every aspects and in a complete manner; if the danger to the religion from not fighting is greater than that of fighting, then it is a duty to fight them even if the intention of some of the fighters are not pure, e.g., they are fighting for the sake of leadership (personal gain) or they do not observe some of the rules and commandments of Islam. To repel the greatest of the two dangers on the expense of the lesser one is an Islamic principle which should be observed. It was the tradition of the people of the Sunnah (Ahl us-Sunnah) to join and invade and fight with the righteous and non-righteous men. Allah may support this religion by righteous and non-righteous people as told by the prophet (Allah's blessing and salutations on him). If it is not possible to fight except with the help of non-righteous military personnel and commanders, then there are two possibilities: either fighting will be ignored and the others, who are the great danger to this life and religion, will take control; or to fight with the help of non-righteous rulers, thereby repelling the greatest of the two dangers and implementing most, though not all, of the Islamic laws. The latter option is the right duty to be carried out in these circumstances and in many other similar situations. In fact, many of the fights and conquests that took place after the time of Rashidoon, the guided Imams, were of this type." (Majmoo' al Fatawa, 26/506)
No one, not even a blind or a deaf person, can deny the presence of the widely spread mischiefs or the prevalence of the great sins that have reached the grievous iniquity of polytheism and to share with Allah in His sole right of sovereignty and making of the law. The All-Mighty stated: "And when Luqman said to his son while he admonished him: O my son! do not associate ought with Allah; most surely polytheism is a grievous iniquity" (Luqman; 31:13). Humanly fabricated laws have been put forward permitting what has been forbidden by Allah such as usury (Riba) and other matters. Banks dealing in usury are competing for land with the two Holy Places and declaring war against Allah by disobeying His order "Allah has allowed trading and forbidden usury." (Baqarah; 2:275) All this taking place at the vicinity of the Holy Mosque in the Holy Land! Allah (SWT) stated in His Holy Book a unique promise (that had not been promised to any other sinner) to the Muslims who deal in usury: 
"O you who believe! Be careful of your duty to Allah and relinquish what remains (due) from usury, if you are believers. But if you do (it) not, then be appraised of war from Allah and His Apostle." (Baqarah; 2:278-279)
This is for the Muslim who deals in usury (believing that it is a sin), what is it then to the person who make himself a partner and equal to Allah, legalising (usury and other sins) what has been forbidden by Allah. Despite of all of the above we see the government misled and dragged some of the righteous Ulamah and Da'ees away from the issue of objecting to the greatest of sins and Kufr. We bemoan this and can only say: "No strength and no power acquired except through Allah". Under such circumstances, to push the enemy, the greatest Kufr, out of the country is a prime duty. No other duty after Belief is more important than the duty at hand. Utmost effort should be made to prepare and instigate the Ummah against the enemy, the American/Israeli alliance occupying the country of the two Holy Places, and the route of the Apostle (Allah's Blessings and Salutations may be on him) to the Furthest Mosque (Al-Aqsa Mosque). Also to remind the Muslims not to be engaged in an internal war among themselves, as that will have grievous consequences, namely:
1. Consumption of the Muslims' human resources, as most casualties and fatalities will be among the Muslims people.
2. Exhaustion of the economic and financial resources.
3. Destruction of the country's infrastructures.
4. Dissociation of the society.
5. Destruction of the oil industries. The presence of the American Crusader military forces on land, sea and air of the states of the Islamic Gulf is the greatest danger threatening the largest oil reserve in the world. The existence of these forces in the area will provoke the people of the country and induces aggression on their religion, feelings and prides and push them to take up armed struggle against the invaders occupying the land; therefore, spread of fighting in the region will expose the oil wealth to the danger of being burned up. The economical interest of the States of the Gulf and the land of the two Holy Places will be damaged and even a greater damage will be caused to the economy of the world. I would like here to alert my brothers, the Mujahideen, the sons of the nation, to protect this (oil) wealth and not to include it in the battle, as it is a great Islamic wealth and a large economical power essential for the soon to be established Islamic state, by Allah's Permission and Grace. We also warn the aggressors, the USA, against burning this Islamic wealth (a crime which they may commit in order to prevent it, at the end of the war, from falling in the hands of its legitimate owners and to cause economical damages to the competitors of the USA in Europe or the Far East, particularly Japan which is the major consumer of the oil of the region).
6. Division of the land of the two Holy Places, and annexing of the Northern part of it by Israel. Dividing the land of the two Holy Places is an essential demand of the Zionist/Crusader alliance. The existence of such a large country with its huge resources under the leadership of the forthcoming Islamic State, by Allah's Grace, represent a serious danger to the very existence of the Zionist state in Palestine. The Noble Kaa'ba, the Qiblah of all Muslims makes the land of the two Holy Places a symbol for the unity of the Islamic world. Moreover, the presence of the world largest oil reserve makes the land of the two Holy Places an important economical power in the Islamic world. The sons of the two Holy Places are directly related to the life style (Seerah) of their forefathers, the Companions, may Allah be pleased with them. They consider the Seerah of their forefathers as a source and an example for re-establishing the greatness of this Ummah and to raise the word of Allah again. Furthermore the presence of a population of fighters in the south of Yemen, fighting in the cause of Allah, is a strategic threat to the Zionist/Crusader alliance in the area. The Prophet (Allah'S blessing and salutations on him) said: "Around twelve thousands will emerge from Aden/Abian helping the cause of Allah and His messenger; they are the best, in the time between me and them." Narrated by Ahmad with a correct trustworthy reference.
7. An internal war is a great mistake, no matter what reasons are there for it. The occupier, the USA forces, will control the outcome of the battle for the benefit of the international Kufr.
I address now my brothers of the security and military forces and the national guards, may Allah preserve you for Islam and the Muslims people: O you protectors of unity and guardians of Faith. O you descendents of the ancestors who carried the light (torch) of guidance and spread it all over the world. O you grandsons of Sa'd Ibn Abi Waqqaas , Al-Mothanna Ibn Haritha Ash-Shaybani , Al-Ga'ga' Ibn Amroo Al-Tameemi and those pious companions who fought Jihad alongside them; you competed to join the army and the guard forces with the intention to carry out Jihad in the cause of Allah raising His word and to defend the faith of Islam and the land of the two Holy Places against the invaders and the occupying forces. That is the ultimate level of believing in this religion (Deen). But the regime has reversed these principles and their understanding, humiliating the Ummah and disobeying Allah. Half a century ago the rulers promised the Ummah that they would regain the first Qiblah, but fifty years later a new generation arrived and the promises have been changed; Al-Aqsa Mosque has been handed over to the Zionists and the wounds of the Ummah are still bleeding there. At this time, when the Ummah has not regained the first Qiblah and the route of the journey of the Prophet (Allah's Blessings and Salutations may be on him), and when all that has been mentioned above has transpired, the Saudi regime has harmed the Ummah in the remaining sanctuaries, the Holy city of Makka and the mosque of the Prophet (Al-Masjid An-Nabawy), by calling the Christian army to defend the regime. The Crusaders were permitted to be in the land of the two Holy Places. Not surprisingly, the King himself wore the cross on his chest. The country was opened wide, from the north to the south, and from the east to the west, for the Crusaders. The land was filled with the military bases of the USA and the Allies. The regime became unable to keep control without the help of these bases. You know more than anybody else about the intention, the size of and the danger of the presence of the US military bases in the area. The regime betrayed the Ummah and joined the Kufr, assisting and helping them against the Muslims. It is well known that this is one of the ten "voiders" of Islam, deeds of de-Islamisation. By opening the Arab peninsula to the crusaders the regime disobeyed and acted against what has been enjoined by the messenger of Allah (Allah's Blessings and Salutations be on him), while he was on his deathbed: 
"Expel the polytheists from the Arab Peninsula;" narrated by Al-Bukhari; and: "If I survive, Allah willing, I will expel the Jews and the Christians out of the Arab Peninsula;" Saheeh Al-Jame'-As-Sagheer. It is out of date and no longer acceptable to claim that the presence of the crusaders is a necessity and only a temporary measure to protect the land of the two Holy Places. Especially when the civil and the military infrastructures of Iraq were savagely destroyed, showing the depth of the Zionist/Crusaders hatred to the Muslims and their children, and also since the rejection of the idea of replacing the Crusaders forces by an Islamic force composed of the sons of the country and other Muslim people. Moreover, these excuses and the claim itself were demolished and wiped out by the sequence of speeches given by the leaders of the Kuffaar in America. The latest of these speeches was the one given by William Perry, the Defence Secretary, after the explosion in Al-Khobar, saying that the presence of the American soldiers there is to protect the interest of the United States of America. The imprisoned Sheikh Safar Al-Hawali, may Allah hasten his release, wrote a book of seventy pages; in it he presented evidence and proof that the presence of the Americans in the Arab Peninsula is a pre-planned military occupation. The regime wants to deceive the Muslim people in the same manner as the Palestinian Mujahideen were deceived, causing the loss of Al-Aqsa Mosque. In 1304 A.H (1936 CE) the awakened Muslim nation of Palestine started their great struggle, Jihad, against the British occupying forces. Britain was impotent to stop the Mujahideen and their Jihad, but their devil inspired that there is no way to stop the armed struggle in Palestine unless through their agent King Abdul Azeez, who managed to deceives the Mujahideen. King Abdul Azeez carried out his duty to his British masters. He sent his two sons to meet the Mujahideen leaders and to inform them that King Abdul Azeez would guarantee the promises made by the British government, of leaving the area and responding positively to the demands of the Mujahideen, if the latter stopped their Jihad. And so King Abdul Azeez caused the loss of the first Qiblah of the Muslim people. The King supported the Crusaders against the Muslims and instead of supporting the Mujahideen in the cause of Allah, liberating the Al-Aqsa Mosque, he disappointed and humiliated them. Today, his son, King Fahd, is trying to deceive the Muslims for the second time, so as to lose what is left of the sanctuaries. When the Islamic world resented the arrival of the crusader forces to the land of the two Holy Places, the king told lies to the Ulamah (who issued Fatwas about the arrival of the Americans) and to the gathering of the Islamic leaders at the conference of Rabitah which was held in the Holy City of Makka. The King said, "The issue is simple - the American and the Alliance forces will leave the area in a few months." Today, it is seven years since their arrival and the regime is not able to move them out of the country. The regime has made no confession of its ineffectiveness, and carries on lying to the people, claiming that the Americans will leave. But never again; a believer will not be bitten twice from the same hole or snake! Happy is the one who takes note of the sad experience of the people! Instead of motivating the army, the guards and the security men to oppose the occupiers, the regime uses these men to protect the invaders, and further deepening the humiliation and the betrayal. We bemoan this and can only say: "No strength and no power acquired except through Allah". To those little group of men within the army, police and security forces, who have been tricked and pressurised by the regime to attack the Muslims and spill their blood, we would like to remind them of the narration: (I promise war against those who take my friends as their enemy) narrated by Al-Bukhari; and his saying (Allah's Blessings and Salutations be on him): On the Day of Judgement, a man comes holding another, complaining about being slain by him. Allah, blessed be His Names, asks: Why did you slay him?! The accused replies: I did so that all exaltation may be Yours. Allah, blessed be His Names, says: All exaltation is indeed mine! Another man comes holding a fourth with a similar complaint. Allah, blessed be His Names, asks: Why did you kill him?! The accused replies: I did so that exaltation may be for Mr. X! Allah, blessed be His Names, says: exaltation is mine, not for Mr. X - carry all the slain man's sins (and proceed to the Hell fire)). In another wording of An-Nasa'i: (The accused says: or strengthening the rule or kingdom of Mr. X.) Today your brothers and sons, the sons of the two Holy Places, have started their Jihad in the cause of Allah, to expel the occupying enemy out of the country of the two Holy places. And there is no doubt that you would like to carry out this mission too, in order to re-establish the greatness of this Ummah and to liberate its occupied sanctuaries. Nevertheless, it must be obvious to you that, due to the imbalance of power between our armed forces and the enemy forces, a suitable means of fighting must be adopted, i.e., using fast moving, light forces that work under complete secrecy. In other word, to initiate a guerrilla war, where the sons of the nation, and not the military forces, take part in it. And as you know, it is wise, in the present circumstances, for the armed military forces not to be engaged in a conventional fighting with the forces of the Crusader enemy, unless a big advantage is likely to be achieved. The exceptions are the bold and forceful operations carried out by the members of the armed forces individually, that is, without the movement of the formal forces in its conventional shape; and hence, the responses will not be directed strongly against the army. And by this war, great losses will be induced on the enemy side, that would shake and destroy its foundations and infrastructures, that will help to expel the enemy defeated out of the country. The Mujahideen, your brothers and sons, request that you support them in every possible way by supplying them with the necessary information, materials and arms. Security men are especially asked to cover up for the Mujahideen and to assist them as much as possible against the occupying enemy; and to spread rumours, fear and discouragement among the members of the enemy forces. We bring to your attention that the regime, in order to create a friction and feud between the Mujahideen and yourselves, might resort to taking deliberate action against personnel of the security guards and military forces and blame the Mujahideen for these actions. The regime should not be allowed to have such opportunity. The regime is fully responsible for what has been incurred by the country and the nation; however, the occupying American enemy is the principle and the main cause of the situation. Therefore efforts should be concentrated on destroying, fighting,and killing the enemy until, by the Grace of Allah, it is completely defeated. The time will come, by the Permission of Allah, when you'll perform your decisive role so that the word of Allah will be supreme and the word of the infidels (Kafiroon) will be inferior. You will hit with iron fists against the aggressors. You'll re-establish the normal course and give the people their rights, and carry out your true Islamic duty. Allah willing, I'll have a separate talk about these issues. My Muslim Brothers (particularly those of the Arab Peninsula):
The money you pay to buy American goods will be transformed into bullets and used against our brothers in Palestine and tomorrow (in the future) against our sons in the land of the two Holy Places. By buying these goods, we are strengthening their economy, while our dispossession and poverty increases.
Muslim Brothers of the land of the two Holy Places:
It is incredible that our country is the world's largest buyer of arms from the USA and the area's biggest commercial partner with the Americans, who are assisting their Zionist brothers in occupying Palestine and in evicting and killing the Muslims there, by providing arms, men, and financial support. To deny these occupiers the enormous revenues of trading with our country is a very important aid to our Jihad against them. To express our anger and hate to them is a very important moral gesture. By doing so we would have taken part in (the process of) cleansing our sanctuaries from the Crusaders and the Zionists and forcing them, by the Permission of Allah, to leave disappointed and defeated.
We expect the women of the land of the two Holy Places and other countries to carry out their role in boycotting American goods. If economic boycotting is combined with the military operations of the Mujahideen, then defeating the enemy will be even nearer, by the Permission of Allah. However, if Muslims don't cooperate and support their Mujahideen brothers, then, in effect, they are supplying the army of the enemy with financial help and extending the war and increasing the suffering of the Muslims.
The security and the intelligence services of the entire world can not force a single citizen to buy the goods of his/her enemy. Economic boycotting of American goods is a very effective weapon of hitting and weakening the enemy, and it is not under the control of the security forces of the regime. Before closing my talk, I have a very important message to the youth of Islam, men of the brilliant future of the Ummah of Muhammad (Allah's blessing and Salutations on him). Our talk with the youth is about their duty in this difficult period in the history of our Ummah. A period in which the youth and no one else has come forward to carry out the variable and different duties. While some well-known individuals have hesitated in their duty of defending Islam and saving themselves and their wealth from the injustice, aggression and terror exercised by the government, the youth (may Allah protect them) are steadfast and raise the banner of Jihad against the American-Zionist alliance occupying the sanctuaries of Islam. Others who have been tricked into loving this materialistic world, as well as those who have been terrorised by the government, choose to give legitimacy to the greatest betrayal, the occupation of the land of the two Holy Places. We bemoan this and can only say: "No strength and no power acquired except through Allah." We are not surprised at the actions of our youth. The youth were the companions of Muhammad (Allah's Blessings and Salutations be on him), and was it not the youths themselves who killed Abu Jahl, the Pharaoh of this Ummah? Our youths are the best descendents of the best ancestors.
Abd ur-Rahman Ibn Awf, may Allah be pleased with him, said: "I was at Badr, where I noticed two boys, one to my right and the other to my left. One of them asked me quietly (so not to be heard by the other): 'O uncle, point out Abu Jahl to me.' 'What do you want him for?', I asked. The boy answered: 'I have been informed that he, Abu Jahl, abused the Messenger of Allah. I swear by Allah, who has my soul in His hand, that if I see Abu Jahl, I'll not let my shadow depart his shadow till one of us is dead.' I was astonished; then the other youth said the same thing as the first one. Subsequently, I saw Abu Jahl among the people; I said to the boys, 'Do you see? This is the man you are asking me about.' The two youths hit Abu Jahl with their swords till he was dead."
Allah is the greatest, Praise be to Him: Two youths of young age but with great perseverance, enthusiasm, courage and pride for the religion of Allah, each one of them asking about the most important act of killing that should be imposed on the enemy. That is the killing of the Pharaoh of this Ummah, Abu Jahl, the leader of the unbelievers (Mushrikeen) at the battle of Badr.
The role of Abdul Rahman Ibn Awf, may Allah be pleased with him, was to direct the two youths toward Abu Jahl. That was the perseverance and the enthusiasm of the youth of that time, and that was the perseverance and the enthusiasm of their fathers. It is this role that is now required from the people who have expertise and knowledge in fighting the enemy. They should guide their brothers and sons in this matter; once that has been done, then our youths will repeat what their forefathers said before: "I swear by Allah, who has my soul in His hand, that if I see Abu Jahl, I'll not let my shadow depart his shadow till one of us is dead."
And the story of Abd ur-Rahman Ibn Awf about Ummayyah Ibn Khalaf shows the extent of Bilal's (may Allah be pleased with him) persistence in killing the head of the Kuffar: "The head of Kufr is Ummayyah Ibn Khalaf...I shall not live if he survives" said Bilal.
A few days ago the news agencies had reported that the Defence Secretary of the Crusading Americans had said that the explosions at Riyadh and Al-Khobar had taught him one lesson: that is not to withdraw when attacked by cowardly terrorists.
We say to the Defence Secretary that his talk could induce a grieving mother to laughter! And it shows the fears that have enveloped you all. Where was this courage of yours when the explosion in Beirut took place in 1983 CE (1403 A.H). You were transformed into scattered bits and pieces; 241 soldiers were killed, most of them Marines. And where was this courage of yours when two explosions made you to leave Aden in less than twenty-four hours!
But your most disgraceful case was in Somalia; where, after vigorous propaganda about the power of the USA and its post-cold war leadership of the new world order, you moved tens of thousands of international forces, including twenty-eight thousand American solders, into Somalia. However, when tens of your solders were killed in minor battles and one American Pilot was dragged in the streets of Mogadishu, you left the area in disappointment, humiliation, and defeat, carrying your dead with you. Clinton appeared in front of the whole world threatening and promising revenge, but these threats were merely a preparation for withdrawal. You had been disgraced by Allah and you withdrew; the extent of your impotence and weaknesses became very clear. It was a pleasure for the heart of every Muslim and a remedy to the chests of believing nations to see you defeated in the three Islamic cities of Beirut, Aden, and Mogadishu.
I say to the Secretary of Defence: The sons of the land of the two Holy Places had come out to fight against the Russians in Afghanistan, the Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and today they are fighting in Chechnya, and by the Permission of Allah, they have been made victorious over your partner, the Russians. By the command of Allah, they are also fighting in Tajikistan.
I say: Since the sons of the land of the two Holy Places know and strongly believe that fighting (Jihad) against the Kuffar in every part of the world is absolutely essential, then they would be even more enthusiastic, more powerful, and even larger in number upon fighting in their own land, the place of their birth, defending the greatest of their sanctuaries, the noble Kaa'ba, the Qiblah of all Muslims. They know that the Muslims of the world will assist and help them to victory. To liberate the sanctuaries is the greatest of issues concerning all Muslims; it is the duty of every Muslim in this world. I say to you, William (Defence Secretary), that: These youths love death as you love life. They pass the traits of dignity, pride, courage, generosity, truthfulness, and sacrifice from father to father. They are most delivering and steadfast at war. They inherit these values from their ancestors (even from the time of the Jahiliyyah before Islam). These values were approved and completed by the arrival of Islam, as stated by the messenger of Allah (Allah's Blessings and Salutations be upon him): "I have been send to perfect the good values." (Saheeh Al-Jame' As-Sagheer). When the pagan King Amroo Ibn Hind tried to humiliate the pagan Amroo Ibn Kulthoom, the latter cut the head of the King with his sword, rejecting aggression, humiliation and indignation.
If the king oppresses the people excessively, we refuse to submit to humiliation.
By which legitimacy (or command), O Amroo bin Hind, do you want us to be degraded?
By which legitimacy (or command), O Amroo bin Hind, do you listen to our foes and disrespect us?
Our toughness has, O Amroo, tired the enemies before you, never giving in! Our youth believe in paradise after death. They believe that taking part in fighting will not bring their day nearer; and staying behind will not postpone their day either. Exalted be to Allah who said: "And a soul will not die but with the permission of Allah, the term is fixed." (Aal Imraan; 3:145) Our youth believe in the saying of the Messenger of Allah (Allah's Blessings and Salutations may be on him): "O boy, I teach a few words; guard (guard the cause of, keep the commandments of) Allah, then He guards you, guard (the cause of) Allah, then He will be with you; if you ask (for your need), ask Allah, if you seek assistance, seek Allah's; and know definitely that if the whole world gathered to (bestow) profit on you, they will not profit you except with what was determined for you by Allah, and if they gathered to harm you they will not harm you except with what has been determined for you by Allah; the Pen is lifted, the papers dried, and it is fixed; nothing in these truths can be changed." (Saheeh Al-Jame' As-Sagheer)
Our youth take note of the meaning of the poetic verse:
"If death is a predetermined must, then it is a shame to die cowardly."
And the other poet saying:
"Who do not die by the sword will die by other reason; many causes are there, but only one death."
These youth believe in what has been told by Allah and His messenger (Allah's Blessings and Salutations be on him) about the greatness of the reward for the Mujahideen and Martyrs; Allah, the most Exalted said: "And as for those who are slain in the Way of Allah, He will by no means allow their deeds to perish. He will guide them and improve their condition. and cause them to enter the Garden of Paradise which He has made known to them." (Muhammad 47:4-6) Allah, the Exalted, also said: "And do not speak of those who are slain in Allah's way as dead; nay, they are alive, but you do not perceive." (Baqarah 2:154) His messenger (Allah's Blessings and Salutations be on him) said: "For those who strive in His Cause, Allah prepared a hundred degrees (levels) in paradise; The difference between two degrees is as the distance between heaven and earth." (Saheeh Al-Jame' As-Sagheer) He (Allah's Blessings and Salutations be on him) also said: "The best of the martyrs are those who do NOT turn their faces away from the battle till they are killed. They are in the highest level of Jannah (paradise). Their Lord laughs at them (in pleasure), and when your Lord laughs to a slave of His, He will not hold him to an account." Narrated by Ahmad with correct and trustworthy reference. And, "A martyr will not feel the pain of death except how you feel when you are pinched." (Saheeh Al-Jame' As-Sagheer) He also said: "A martyr's privileges are guaranteed by Allah; forgiveness with the first gush of his blood, he will be shown his seat in paradise, he will be decorated with the jewels of belief (Imaan), married off to the beautiful ones, protected from the test in the grave, assured security in the day of judgement, crowned with the crown of dignity, a ruby of which is better than this whole world (Dunya) and its entire content, wedded to seventy-two of the pure Houries (beautiful ones of Paradise) and his intercession on the behalf of seventy of his relatives will be accepted." Narrated by Ahmad and At-Tirmidhi (with the correct and trustworthy reference).
Those youths know that the reward in fighting you, the USA, is double than the reward in fighting someone not from the People of the Book. They have no intention except to enter paradise by killing you. An infidel, an enemy of God like you, cannot be in the same heaven with his righteous executioner. Our youth chant and recite the word of Allah, the most Exalted:
"Fight them; Allah will punish them by your hands and bring them to disgrace, and assist you against them, and heal the heart of a believing people," (At-Taubah; 9:14) and the words of the Prophet (Allah's blessing and solutations be upon him): "I swear by Him, who has my soul in His hand, that the man who gets killed fighting them today, patiently attacking and not retreating, surely Allah will let him into Paradise." And his (Allah's Blessings and Salutations be upon him) saying to them: "Get up to a Paradise as wide as Heaven and Earth". The youth also recite the All Mighty's words: "So when you meet in battle those who disbelieve, then smite the necks..." (Muhammad 47:19).
Those youths will not ask you (William Perry) for explanations. They will tell you, singing, there is nothing between us that needs to be explained, there is only killing and neck-smiting.
And they will say to you what their grand father, Haroon Ar-Rasheed, Ameer-ul-Mu'mineen, said to your grandfather, Nagfoor, the Byzantine emperor, when he threatened the Muslims: "From Haroon Ar-Rasheed, Ameer-ul-Mu'mineen, to Nagfoor, the dog of the Romans; the answer is what you will see, not what you hear." Haroon al-Rasheed led the armies of Islam to the battle and handed Nagfoor a devastating defeat.
The youths you call cowards are competing among themselves in fighting and killing you, reciting what one of them said:
"The Crusader army became dust when we detonated al-Khobar, With courageous youth of Islam fearing no danger."
If (they are) threatened: "The tyrants will kill you," they reply, "My death is a victory. I did not betray that king, he did betray our Qiblah. And he permitted in the Holy country the most filthy sort of humans. I have made an oath by Allah, the Great, to fight who ever rejected the faith."
For more than a decade, they carried arms on their shoulders in Afghanistan, and they have made vows to Allah that, as long as they are alive, they will continue to carry arms against you until you are, Allah willing, expelled, defeated and humiliated. They will carry on as long as they live, saying:
"O William, tomorrow you will know which young man is confronting your misguided brethren!
"A youth fighting with a smile, returning with the spear coloured red.
"May Allah keep me close to knights, humans in peace, demons in war.
"Lions in Jungle, their teeth are spears and Indian swords.
"The horses witness that I push them forward hard in the fire of battle.
"The dust of the battle bears witnesses for me, so also the fighting itself, the pens and the books!"
So to abuse the grandsons of the Companions, may Allah be pleased with them, by calling them cowards, and to challenge them by refusing to leave the land of the two Holy Places, shows the insanity and the imbalance you are suffering from. Its appropriate remedy ,however, is in the hands of the youth of Islam, as the poet said:
"I am willing to sacrifice self and wealth for knights who never disappointed me.
"Knights who are never fed up or deterred by death, even as the mill of war turns.
"In the heat of battle they do not care, and cure the insanity of the enemy by their 'insane' courage."
Terrorising you, while you are carrying arms on our land, is a legitimate and morally demanded duty. It is a legitimate right well known to all humans and other creatures. Your example and our example is like a snake which entered into a house of a man and got killed by him. The coward is the one who lets you walk on his land, carrying arms freely, and provides you with peace and security.
Those youth are different from your soldiers. Your problem will be how to convince your troops to fight, while our problem will be how to restrain our youth to wait for their turn in fighting and in operations. These youths are commendable and praiseworthy.
They stood up tall to defend the religion at the time when the government misled the prominent scholars, and tricked them into issuing Fatwas that have no basis, neither in the book of Allah nor in the Sunnah of His Prophet (Allah's Blessings and Salutations be on him), allowing the opening of the land of the two Holy Places for the Christians armies and handing the Al-Aqsa Mosque to the Zionists.
Twisting the meanings of the Holy Text will not change this fact at all. They deserve the words of the poet:
"I reject all the critics, who chose the wrong way.
"I reject those who enjoy fireplaces in clubs discussing eternity.
"I reject those, who in spite of being lost, think they are at the goal.
"I respect those who carried on, not asking or bothering about the difficulties.
"Never letting up from their goals, inspite all hardships of the road.
"Whose blood is the oil for the flame which guides in the darkness of confusion.
"I feel still the pain of (the loss of) Al-Quds in my internal organs.
"That loss is like a burning fire in my intestines.
"I did not betray my covenant with God, when even states did betray it!"
As their grandfather Assim Bin Thabit said, rejecting a offer of the pagans:
"What excuse do I have to surrender, while I am still able, having arrows and my bow having a tough string?
"Death is truth and the ultimate destiny, and life will end anyway.
"If I do not fight you, then my mother must be insane!"
The youths hold you responsible for all of the killings and evictions of the Muslims and the violation of the sanctuaries, carried out by your Zionist brothers in Lebanon; you openly supplied them with arms and finance. More than 600,000 Iraqi children have died due to lack of food and medicine and as a result of the unjustifiable aggression (sanctions) imposed on Iraq and its people.
The children of Iraq are our children. You, the USA, together with the Saudi regime, are responsible for the shedding of the blood of these innocent children. Due to all of that, whatever treaty you have with our country is now null and void.
The treaty of Hudaybiyyah was cancelled by the messenger of Allah (Allah's Blessings and Salutations be upon him), once Quraysh had assisted Bani Bakr against Khusa'ah, the allies of the prophet (Allah's Blessings and Salutations be upon him). The Prophet (Allah's Blessings and Salutations be upon him) fought Quraysh and conquered Makkah. He (Allah's Blessings and Salutations be upon him) considered the treaty with Bani Qainuqa' void because one of their Jews publicly hurt one Muslim woman, one single woman, at the market. When we compare this to your killing of hundred of thousands of Muslims and occupying their sanctuaries, it is now clear that those who claim that the blood of the American soldiers (the enemy occupying the land of the Muslims) should be protected are merely repeating what is imposed on them by the regime; fearing the aggression and interest in saving themselves. It is a duty now on every tribe in the Arab Peninsula to fight Jihad in the Cause of Allah and to cleanse the land from those occupiers. Allah knows that their blood is permitted (to be spilled) and their wealth is a booty; their wealth is a booty to those who kill them. The most Exalted said, in the verse of As-Sayf, The Sword: "So when the Sacred months have passed away, then slay the idolaters where ever you find them, and take them captive and besiege them, and lie in wait for them in every ambush." (At-Taubah 9:5). Our youth know that the humiliation suffered by the Muslims as a result of the occupation of their sanctuaries cannot be obliterated and removed except by explosions and Jihad. As the poet said:
"The walls of oppression and humiliation cannot be demolished except in a rain of bullets.
"The freeman does not surrender leadership to infidels and sinners.
"Without shedding blood, no degradation and branding can be removed from the forehead.
"I remind the youth of the Islamic world, who fought in Afghanistan and Bosnia and Herzegovina with their wealth, pens, tongues, and selves, that the battle has not finished yet. I remind them about the talk between Jibreel (Gabriel) and the Messenger of Allah (Allah's Blessings and Salutations be upon both of them) after the battle of Ahzab, when the Messenger of Allah (Allah's Blessings and Salutations may be on him) returned to Medina, and before putting his sword aside, Jibreel (Allah's Blessings and Salutations be on him) descended, saying: "Are you putting your sword aside? By Allah, the angels haven't dropped their arms yet; march with your companions to Bani Quraydah, I am (going) ahead of you to throw fear in their hearts and to shake their fortresses." Jibreel marched with the angels (Allah's Blessings and Salutations be upon them all), followed by the Messenger of Allah (Allah's Blessings and Salutations be upon him), marching with the immigrants, (Muhajiroon) and supporters (Ansar). (Narrated by Al-Bukhari).
These youth know that if one is not to be killed, one will die (anyway), and the most honourable death is to be killed in the Way of Allah. They are even more determined after the martyrdom of the four heroes who bombed the Americans in Riyadh. Those youth raised high the head of the Ummah and humiliated the Americans, the occupier, by their operation in Riyadh. They remember the poetry of Ja'far, the second commander in the battle of Mu'tah, in which three thousand Muslims faced over a hundred thousand Romans:
"How good is the Paradise and its nearness, good with cool drink.
"But the Romans are promised punishment (in Hell), if I meet them.
"I will fight them."
And the poetry of Abdullah Bin Rawaha, the third commander in the battle of Mu'tah, after the martyrdom of Ja'far, when he felt some hesitation:
"O my soul, if you do not get killed, you are going to die, anyway.
"This is the death pool in front of you!"
You are getting what you have wished for (martyrdom) before, and you follow the example of the two previous commanders, you are rightly guided!
As for our daughters, wives, sisters, and mothers, they should take prime example from the Prophet's (Allah's Blessings and Salutations be upon him) pious female Companions, may Allah be pleased with them; they should adopt the life style (Seerah) of the female Companions, of courage, sacrifice and generosity in the cause of the supremacy of Allah's religion. They should remember the courage and the personality of Fatima, daughter of Khattab, when she accepted Islam and stood up in front of her brother, Omar Ibn Al-Khattab and challenged him (before he became a Muslim) saying: "O Omar, what will you do if the truth is not in your religion?!" And to remember the stand of Asma', daughter of Abu Bakr, on the day of Hijra, when she attended the Messenger and his Companion in the cave and split her belt in two pieces for them. And to remember the stand of Naseeba Bint Ka'b, striving to defend the Messenger of Allah (Allah's Blessings and Salutations be upon him) on the day of Uhud, in which she suffered twelve injuries, one of which was so deep leaving a deep lifelong scar! They should remember the generosity of the early women of Islam who raised finance for the Muslim army by selling their jewellery. Our women have set a tremendous example of generosity in the cause of Allah; they motivated and encouraged their sons, brothers and husbands to fight in the cause of Allah in Afghanistan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Chechnya, and in other countries. We ask Allah to accept from them these deeds, and may He help their fathers, brothers, husbands and sons. May Allah strengthen the belief (Imaan) of our women in the way of generosity and sacrifice for the supremacy of the word of Allah. Our women weep not, except over men who fight in the cause of Allah; our women instigate their brothers to fight in the cause of Allah.
Our women bemoan only fighters in the cause of Allah, as said:
"Do not moan on any one except a lion in the woods, courageous in the burning wars.
"Let me die dignified in wars, honourable death is better than my current life."
Our women encourage men to Jihad, saying:
"Prepare yourself like a struggler, the matter is bigger than words!
"Are you going to leave us for the wolves of Kufr eating our wings?!
"The wolves of Kufr are mobilising all evil persons from everywhere!
"Where are the freemen defending free women by the arms?!"
Death is better than life in humiliation! Some scandals and shames will never be otherwise eradicated. My Muslim Brothers of The World:
Your brothers in Palestine and in the land of the two Holy Places are calling for your help and asking you to take part in fighting against your enemy and their enemy, the Americans and the Israelis. they are asking you to do whatever you can, with one's own means and ability, to expel the enemy, humiliated and defeated, out of the sancttuaries of Islam. Exalted be Allah, who said in His book: "And if they ask your support, because they are oppressed in their faith, then support them!" (Anfaal 8:72)
O you soldiers of Allah, ride and march on. This is the time of hardship, so be tough. And know that your gathering and cooperation in order to liberate the sanctuaries of Islam is the right step toward unifying the Ummah under the banner of "No God but Allah".
From our place, we raise our palms humbly to Allah, asking Him to bestow on us His guidance in every aspect of this issue.
Our Lord, we ask you to secure the release of the truthful scholars (Ulama) of Islam and pious youths of the Ummah from their imprisonment. O Allah, strengthen them and help their families.
Our Lord, the people of the cross had come with their horses (soldiers) and occupied the land of the two Holy places. And the Zionist Jews fiddle as they wish with the Al-Aqsa Mosque, the route of the ascent of the Messenger of Allah (Allah's blessing and salutation upon him). Our Lord, shatter their gathering, divide them among themselves, shaken the earth under their feet and give us control over them; Our Lord, we take refuge in you from their deeds and take you as a shield between us and them.
Our Lord, show us a black day for them!
Our Lord, show us the wonderment of your ability in them!
Our Lord, You are the Revealer of the book, Director of the clouds,
You defeated the allies (Ahzab); defeat them and make us victorious over them.
Our Lord, You are the one who helps us and You are the one who assists us, with Your Power we move and by Your Power we fight. On You we rely and You are our cause. Our Lord, those youth got together to make Your religion victorious and raise Your banner. Our Lord, send them Your help and strengthen their hearts.
Our Lord, make the youths of Islam steadfast and descend patience on them and guide their shots!
Our Lord, unify the Muslims and bestow love among their hearts!
Our Lord, pour down upon us patience, and make our steps firm and assist us against the unbelieving people!
Our Lord, do not lay on us a burden as Thou didst lay on those before us; Our Lord, do not impose upon us that which we have no strength to bear; and pardon us and grant us protection and have mercy on us, Thou art our patron, so help us against the unbelieving people.
Our Lord, guide this Ummah, and make the right conditions (by which) the people of your obedience will be in dignity and the people of disobedience in humiliation, and by which the good deeds are enjoined and the bad deeds are forbidden.
Our Lord, bless Muhammad, Your slave and Messenger, his family and descendants, and companions and salute him with a (becoming) salutation.
And our last supplication is: All praise is due to Allah.
Usama bin Muhammad bin Ladin
#

Praise be to God and we beseech Him for help and forgiveness.
We seek refuge with the Lord of our bad and evildoing. He whom God guides is rightly guided but he whom God leaves to stray, for him wilt thou find no protector to lead him to the right way.
I witness that there is no God but God and Mohammed is His slave and Prophet. 
God Almighty hit the United States at its most vulnerable spot. He destroyed its greatest buildings.
Praise be to God. 
Here is the United States. It was filled with terror from its north to its south and from its east to its west.
Praise be to God.
What the United States tastes today is a very small thing compared to what we have tasted for tens of years.
Our nation has been tasting this humiliation and contempt for more than 80 years.
Its sons are being killed, its blood is being shed, its holy places are being attacked, and it is not being ruled according to what God has
decreed.
Despite this, nobody cares.
When Almighty God rendered successful a convoy of Muslims, the vanguards of Islam, He allowed them to destroy the United States.
I ask God Almighty to elevate their status and grant them Paradise. He
is the one who is capable to do so.
When these defended their oppressed sons, brothers, and sisters in Palestine and in many Islamic countries, the world at large shouted. The infidels shouted, followed by the hypocrites.
One million Iraqi children have thus far died in Iraq although they did not do anything wrong. 
Despite this, we heard no denunciation by anyone in the world or a fatwa by the rulers' ulema [body of Muslim scholars].
Israeli tanks and tracked vehicles also enter to wreak havoc in Palestine, in Jenin, Ramallah, Rafah, Beit Jala, and other Islamic areas and we hear no voices raised or moves made.
But if the sword falls on the United States after 80 years, hypocrisy raises its head lamenting the deaths of these killers who tampered with the
blood, honour, and holy places of the Muslims.
The least that one can describe these people is that they are morally
depraved.
They champion falsehood, support the butcher against the victim, the oppressor against the innocent child.
May God mete them the punishment they deserve.
I say that the matter is clear and explicit.
In the aftermath of this event and now that senior US officials have spoken, beginning with Bush, the head of the world's infidels, and
whoever supports him, every Muslim should rush to defend his religion.
They came out in arrogance with their men and horses and instigated even those countries that belong to Islam against us.
They came out to fight this group of people who declared their faith in God and refused to abandon their religion.
They came out to fight Islam in the name of terrorism.
Hundreds of thousands of people, young and old, were killed in the farthest point on earth in Japan.
For them this is not a crime, but rather a debatable issue.
They bombed Iraq and considered that a debatable issue.
But when a dozen people of them were killed in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam, Afghanistan and Iraq were bombed and all hypocrite ones stood behind the head of the world's infidelity - behind the Hubal of the age - namely, America and its supporters.
These incidents divided the entire world into two regions - one of faith where there is no hypocrisy and another of infidelity, from which we hope God will protect us.
The winds of faith and change have blown to remove falsehood from
the [Arabian] peninsula of Prophet Mohammed, may God's prayers be
upon him.
As for the United States, I tell it and its land of Mohammed
people these few words: I swear by Almighty God who raised the heavens without pillars that neither the United States nor he who lives in the United States will enjoy security before we can see it as a reality in Palestine and before all the infidel armies leave the land of Mohammed,
may God's peace and blessing be upon him. God is great and glory to Islam.
May God's peace, mercy, and blessings be upon you.Here is America struck by God Almighty in one of its vital organs, so that its greatest buildings are destroyed. Grace and gratitude to God. America has been filled with horror from north to south and east to west, and thanks be to God. What America is tasting now is only a copy of what we have tasted.
Our Islamic nation has been tasting the same for more than 80 years of humiliation and disgrace, its sons killed and their blood spilled, its sanctities desecrated.
God has blessed a group of vanguard Muslims, the forefront of Islam, to destroy America. May God bless them and allot them a supreme place in heaven, for he is the only one capable and entitled to do so. When those have stood in defense of their weak children, their brothers and sisters in Palestine and other Muslim nations, the whole world went into an uproar, the infidels followed by the hypocrites.
A million innocent children are dying at this time as we speak, killed in Iraq without any guilt. We hear no denunciation, we hear no edict from the hereditary rulers. In these days, Israeli tanks rampage across Palestine, in Ramallah, Rafah and Beit Jala and many other parts of the land of Islam [dar al-Islam], and we do not hear anyone raising his voice or reacting. But when the sword fell upon America after 80 years, hypocrisy raised its head up high bemoaning those killers who toyed with the blood, honor and sanctities of Muslims.
The least that can be said about those hypocrites is that they are apostates who followed the wrong path. They backed the butcher against the victim, the oppressor against the innocent child. I seek refuge in God against them and ask him to let us see them in what they deserve.
I say that the matter is very clear. Every Muslim, after this event, after the senior officials in the United States of America starting with the head of international infidels. Bush and his staff who went on a display of vanity with their men and horses, those who turned even the countries that believe in Islam against usthe group that resorted to God, the Almighty, the group that refuses to be subdued in its religion.
They have been telling the world falsehoods that they are fighting terrorism. In a nation at the far end of the world, Japan, hundreds of thousands, young and old, were killed and this is not a world crime. To them it is not a clear issue. A million children in Iraq, to them this is not a clear issue.
But when a few more than 10 were killed in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam, Afghanistan and Iraq were bombed and hypocrisy stood behind the head of international infidels: the modern world's symbol of paganism, America, and its allies.
I tell them that these events have divided the world into two camps, the camp of the faithful and the camp of infidels. May God shield us and you from them.
Every Muslim must rise to defend his religion. The wind of faith is blowing and the wind of change is blowing to remove evil from the Peninsula of Muhammad, peace be upon him.
As to America, I say to it and its people a few words: I swear to God that America will not live in peace before peace reigns in Palestine, and before all the army of infidels depart the land of Muhammad, peace be upon him.
God is the greatest and glory be to Islam.
In the Name of Allah, the Most Gracious, the Most Merciful, "Permission to fight (against disbelievers) is given to those (believers) who are fought against, because they have been wronged and surely, Allah is Able to give them (believers) victory" [Quran 22:39]
"Those who believe, fight in the Cause of Allah, and those who disbelieve, fight in the cause of Taghut (anything worshipped other than Allah e.g. Satan). So fight you against the friends of Satan; ever feeble is indeed the plot of Satan." [Quran 4:76]
Some American writers have published articles under the title 'On what basis are we fighting?' These articles have generated a number of responses, some of which adhered to the truth and were based on Islamic Law, and others which have not.
Here we wanted to outline the truth - as an explanation and warning - hoping for Allah's reward, seeking success and support from Him.
While seeking Allah's help, we form our reply based on two questions directed at the Americans:
(Q1) Why are we fighting and opposing you?
(Q2) What are we calling you to, and what do we want from you?

As for the first question: Why are we fighting and opposing you? The answer is very simple:
(1) Because you attacked us and continue to attack us.
a) You attacked us in Palestine:
(i) Palestine, which has sunk under military occupation for more than 80 years. The British handed over Palestine, with your help and your support, to the Jews, who have occupied it for more than 50 years; years overflowing with oppression, tyranny, crimes, killing, expulsion, destruction and devastation. The creation and continuation of Israel is one of the greatest crimes, and you are the leaders of its criminals. And of course, there is no need to explain and prove the degree of American support for Israel. The creation of Israel is a crime which must be erased. Each and every person whose hands have become polluted in the contribution towards this crime must pay its price, and pay for it heavily.
(ii) It brings us both laughter and tears to see that you have not yet tired of repeating your fabricated lies that the Jews have a historical right to Palestine, as it was promised to them in the Torah. Anyone who disputes with them on this alleged fact is accused of anti-Semitism. This is one of the most fallacious, widely circulated fabrications in history. The people of Palestine are pure Arabs and original Semites. It is the Muslims who are the inheritors of Moses (peace be upon him) and the inheritors of the real Torah that has not been changed. Muslims believe in all of the Prophets, including Abraham, Moses, Jesus and Muhammad, peace and blessings of Allah be upon them all. If the followers of Moses have been promised a right to Palestine in the Torah, then the Muslims are the most worthy nation of this.
When the Muslims conquered Palestine and drove out the Romans, Palestine and Jerusalem returned to Islam, the religion of all the Prophets peace be upon them. Therefore, the call to a historical right to Palestine cannot be raised against the Islamic Ummah that believes in all the Prophets of Allah (peace and blessings be upon them) - and we make no distinction between them.
(iii) The blood pouring out of Palestine must be equally revenged. You must know that the Palestinians do not cry alone; their women are not widowed alone; their sons are not orphaned alone.
(b) You attacked us in Somalia; you supported the Russian atrocities against us in Chechnya, the Indian oppression against us in Kashmir, and the Jewish aggression against us in Lebanon.
(c) Under your supervision, consent and orders, the governments of our countries which act as your agents, attack us on a daily basis;
(i) These governments prevent our people from establishing the Islamic Shariah, using violence and lies to do so.
(ii) These governments give us a taste of humiliation, and places us in a large prison of fear and subdual.
(iii) These governments steal our Ummah's wealth and sell them to you at a paltry price.
(iv) These governments have surrendered to the Jews, and handed them most of Palestine, acknowledging the existence of their state over the dismembered limbs of their own people.
(v) The removal of these governments is an obligation upon us, and a necessary step to free the Ummah, to make the Shariah the supreme law and to regain Palestine. And our fight against these governments is not separate from out fight against you.
(d) You steal our wealth and oil at paltry prices because of your international influence and military threats. This theft is indeed the biggest theft ever witnessed by mankind in the history of the world. 
(e) Your forces occupy our countries; you spread your military bases throughout them; you corrupt our lands, and you besiege our sanctities, to protect the security of the Jews and to ensure the continuity of your pillage of our treasures.
(f) You have starved the Muslims of Iraq, where children die every day. It is a wonder that more than 1.5 million Iraqi children have died as a result of your sanctions, and you did not show concern. Yet when 3000 of your people died, the entire world rises and has not yet sat down.
(g) You have supported the Jews in their idea that Jerusalem is their eternal capital, and agreed to move your embassy there. With your help and under your protection, the Israelis are planning to destroy the Al-Aqsa mosque. Under the protection of your weapons, Sharon entered the Al-Aqsa mosque, to pollute it as a preparation to capture and destroy it.
(2) These tragedies and calamities are only a few examples of your oppression and aggression against us. It is commanded by our religion and intellect that the oppressed have a right to return the aggression. Do not await anything from us but Jihad, resistance and revenge. Is it in any way rational to expect that after America has attacked us for more than half a century, that we will then leave her to live in security and peace?!!
(3) You may then dispute that all the above does not justify aggression against civilians, for crimes they did not commit and offenses in which they did not partake: 
(a) This argument contradicts your continuous repetition that America is the land of freedom, and its leaders in this world. Therefore, the American people are the ones who choose their government by way of their own free will; a choice which stems from their agreement to its policies. Thus the American people have chosen, consented to, and affirmed their support for the Israeli oppression of the Palestinians, the occupation and usurpation of their land, and its continuous killing, torture, punishment and expulsion of the Palestinians. The American people have the ability and choice to refuse the policies of their Government and even to change it if they want. 
(b) The American people are the ones who pay the taxes which fund the planes that bomb us in Afghanistan, the tanks that strike and destroy our homes in Palestine, the armies which occupy our lands in the Arabian Gulf, and the feats which ensure the blockade of Iraq. These tax dollars are given to Israel for it to continue to attack us and penetrate our lands. So the American people are the ones who fund the attacks against us, and they are the ones who oversee the expenditure of these monies in the way they wish, through their elected candidates.
(c) Also the American army is part of the American people. It is this very same people who are shamelessly helping the Jews fight against us.
(d) The American people are the ones who employ both their men and their women in the American Forces which attack us.
(e) This is why the American people cannot be not innocent of all the crimes committed by the Americans and Jews against us.
(f) Allah, the Almighty, legislated the permission and the option to take revenge. Thus, if we are attacked, then we have the right to attack back. Whoever has destroyed our villages and towns, then we have the right to destroy their villages and towns. Whoever has stolen our wealth, then we have the right to destroy their economy. And whoever has killed our civilians, then we have the right to kill theirs.
The American Government and press still refuses to answer the question:
Why did they attack us in New York and Washington?
If Sharon is a man of peace in the eyes of Bush, then we are also men of peace!!! America does not understand the language of manners and principles, so we are addressing it using the language it understands.
(Q2) As for the second question that we want to answer: What are we calling you to, and what do we want from you?
(1) The first thing that we are calling you to is Islam.
(a) The religion of the Unification of God; of freedom from associating partners with Him, and rejection of this; of complete love of Him, the Exalted; of complete submission to His Laws; and of the discarding of all the opinions, orders, theories and religions which contradict with the religion He sent down to His Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him). Islam is the religion of all the prophets, and makes no distinction between them - peace be upon them all.
It is to this religion that we call you; the seal of all the previous religions. It is the religion of Unification of God, sincerity, the best of manners, righteousness, mercy, honour, purity, and piety. It is the religion of showing kindness to others, establishing justice between them, granting them their rights, and defending the oppressed and the persecuted. It is the religion of enjoining the good and forbidding the evil with the hand, tongue and heart. It is the religion of Jihad in the way of Allah so that Allah's Word and religion reign Supreme. And it is the religion of unity and agreement on the obedience to Allah, and total equality between all people, without regarding their colour, sex, or language.
(b) It is the religion whose book - the Quran - will remained preserved and unchanged, after the other Divine books and messages have been changed. The Quran is the miracle until the Day of Judgment. Allah has challenged anyone to bring a book like the Quran or even ten verses like it.
(2) The second thing we call you to, is to stop your oppression, lies, immorality and debauchery that has spread among you.
(a) We call you to be a people of manners, principles, honour, and purity; to reject the immoral acts of fornication, homosexuality, intoxicants, gambling's, and trading with interest. We call you to all of this that you may be freed from that which you have become caught up in; that you may be freed from the deceptive lies that you are a great nation, that your leaders spread amongst you to conceal from you the despicable state to which you have reached.
(b) It is saddening to tell you that you are the worst civilization witnessed by the history of mankind:
(i) You are the nation who, rather than ruling by the Shariah of Allah in its Constitution and Laws, choose to invent your own laws as you will and desire. You separate religion from your policies, contradicting the pure nature which affirms Absolute Authority to the Lord and your Creator.
You fee from the embarrassing question posed to you: How is it possible for Allah the Almighty to create His creation, grant them power over all the creatures and land, grant them all the amenities of life, and then deny them that which they are most in need of: knowledge of the laws which govern their lives?
(ii) You are the nation that permits Usury, which has been forbidden by all the religions. Yet you build your economy and investments on Usury. As a result of this, in all its different forms and guises, the Jews have taken control of your economy, through which they have then taken control of your media, and now control all aspects of your life making you their servants and achieving their aims at your expense; precisely what Benjamin Franklin warned you against.
(iii) You are a nation that permits the production, trading and usage of intoxicants. You also permit drugs, and only forbid the trade of them, even though your nation is the largest consumer of them.
(iv) You are a nation that permits acts of immorality, and you consider them to be pillars of personal freedom. You have continued to sink down this abyss from level to level until incest has spread amongst you, in the face of which neither your sense of honour nor your laws object.
Who can forget your President Clinton's immoral acts committed in the official Oval office? After that you did not even bring him to account, other than that he 'made a mistake', after which everything passed with no punishment. Is there a worse kind of event for which your name will go down in history and remembered by nations?
(v) You are a nation that permits gambling in its all forms. The companies practice this as well, resulting in the investments becoming active and the criminals becoming rich.
(vi) You are a nation that exploits women like consumer products or advertising tools calling upon customers to purchase them. You use women to serve passengers, visitors, and strangers to increase your profit margins. You then rant that you support the liberation of women.
(vii) You are a nation that practices the trade of sex in all its forms, directly and indirectly. Giant corporations and establishments are established on this, under the name of art, entertainment, tourism and freedom, and other deceptive names you attribute to it.
(viii) And because of all this, you have been described in history as a nation that spreads diseases that were unknown to man in the past. Go ahead and boast to the nations of man, that you brought them AIDS as a Satanic American Invention.
(xi) You have destroyed nature with your industrial waste and gases more than any other nation in history. Despite this, you refuse to sign the Kyoto agreement so that you can secure the profit of your greedy companies and industries.
(x) Your law is the law of the rich and wealthy people, who hold sway in their political parties, and fund their election campaigns with their gifts. Behind them stand the Jews, who control your policies, media and economy.
(xi) That which you are singled out for in the history of mankind, is that you have used your force to destroy mankind more than any other nation in history; not to defend principles and values, but to hasten to secure your interests and profits. You who dropped a nuclear bomb on Japan, even though Japan was ready to negotiate an end to the war. How many acts of oppression, tyranny and injustice have you carried out, O callers to freedom?
(xii) Let us not forget one of your major characteristics: your duality in both manners and values; your hypocrisy in manners and principles. All manners, principles and values have two scales: one for you and one for the others.
(a) The freedom and democracy that you call to is for yourselves and for white race only; as for the rest of the world, you impose upon them your monstrous, destructive policies and Governments, which you call the 'American friends'. Yet you prevent them from establishing democracies. When the Islamic party in Algeria wanted to practice democracy and they won the election, you unleashed your agents in the Algerian army onto them, and to attack them with tanks and guns, to imprison them and torture them - a new lesson from the 'American book of democracy'!!!
(b) Your policy on prohibiting and forcibly removing weapons of mass destruction to ensure world peace: it only applies to those countries which you do not permit to possess such weapons. As for the countries you consent to, such as Israel, then they are allowed to keep and use such weapons to defend their security. Anyone else who you suspect might be manufacturing or keeping these kinds of weapons, you call them criminals and you take military action against them.
(c) You are the last ones to respect the resolutions and policies of International Law, yet you claim to want to selectively punish anyone else who does the same. Israel has for more than 50 years been pushing UN resolutions and rules against the wall with the full support of America.
(d) As for the war criminals which you censure and form criminal courts for - you shamelessly ask that your own are granted immunity!! However, history will not forget the war crimes that you committed against the Muslims and the rest of the world; those you have killed in Japan, Afghanistan, Somalia, Lebanon and Iraq will remain a shame that you will never be able to escape. It will suffice to remind you of your latest war crimes in Afghanistan, in which densely populated innocent civilian villages were destroyed, bombs were dropped on mosques causing the roof of the mosque to come crashing down on the heads of the Muslims praying inside.
You are the ones who broke the agreement with the Mujahideen when they left Qunduz, bombing them in Jangi fort, and killing more than 1,000 of your prisoners through suffocation and thirst. Allah alone knows how many people have died by torture at the hands of you and your agents. Your planes remain in the Afghan skies, looking for anyone remotely suspicious.
(e) You have claimed to be the vanguards of Human Rights, and your Ministry of Foreign affairs issues annual reports containing statistics of those countries that violate any Human Rights. However, all these things vanished when the Mujahideen hit you, and you then implemented the methods of the same documented governments that you used to curse. In America, you captured thousands the Muslims and Arabs, took them into custody with neither reason, court trial, nor even disclosing their names. You issued newer, harsher laws.
What happens in Guantanamo is a historical embarrassment to America and its values, and it screams into your faces - you hypocrites, "What is the value of your signature on any agreement or treaty?"
(3) What we call you to thirdly is to take an honest stance with yourselves - and I doubt you will do so - to discover that you are a nation without principles or manners, and that the values and principles to you are something which you merely demand from others, not that which you yourself must adhere to. 
(4) We also advise you to stop supporting Israel, and to end your support of the Indians in Kashmir, the Russians against the Chechens and to also cease supporting the Manila Government against the Muslims in Southern Philippines.
(5) We also advise you to pack your luggage and get out of our lands. We desire for your goodness, guidance, and righteousness, so do not force us to send you back as cargo in coffins.
(6) Sixthly, we call upon you to end your support of the corrupt leaders in our countries. Do not interfere in our politics and method of education. Leave us alone, or else expect us in New York and Washington.
(7) We also call you to deal with us and interact with us on the basis of mutual interests and benefits, rather than the policies of sub dual, theft and occupation, and not to continue your policy of supporting the Jews because this will result in more disasters for you.
If you fail to respond to all these conditions, then prepare for fight with the Islamic Nation. The Nation of Monotheism, that puts complete trust on Allah and fears none other than Him. The Nation which is addressed by its Quran with the words:
"Do you fear them? Allah has more right that you should fear Him if you are believers. Fight against them so that Allah will punish them by your hands and disgrace them and give you victory over them and heal the breasts of believing people. And remove the anger of their (believers') hearts. Allah accepts the repentance of whom He wills. Allah is All-Knowing, All-Wise." [Quran9:13-1]
The Nation of honour and respect: "But honour, power and glory belong to Allah, and to His Messenger (Muhammad peace be upon him) and to the believers." [Quran 63:8]
"So do not become weak (against your enemy), nor be sad, and you will be superior (in victory) if you are indeed (true) believers" [Quran 3:139]
The Nation of Martyrdom; the Nation that desires death more than you desire life:
"Think not of those who are killed in the way of Allah as dead. Nay, they are alive with their Lord, and they are being provided for. They rejoice in what Allah has bestowed upon them from His bounty and rejoice for the sake of those who have not yet joined them, but are left behind (not yet martyred) that on them no fear shall come, nor shall they grieve. They rejoice in a grace and a bounty from Allah, and that Allah will not waste the reward of the believers." [Quran 3:169-171]
The Nation of victory and success that Allah has promised:
"It is He Who has sent His Messenger (Muhammad peace be upon him) with guidance and the religion of truth (Islam), to make it victorious over all other religions even though the Polytheists hate it." [Quran 61:9]
"Allah has decreed that 'Verily it is I and My Messengers who shall be victorious. Verily Allah is All-Powerful, All-Mighty." [Quran 58:21]
The Islamic Nation that was able to dismiss and destroy the previous evil Empires like yourself; the Nation that rejects your attacks, wishes to remove your evils, and is prepared to fight you. You are well aware that the Islamic Nation, from the very core of its soul, despises your haughtiness and arrogance.
If the Americans refuse to listen to our advice and the goodness, guidance and righteousness that we call them to, then be aware that you will lose this Crusade Bush began, just like the other previous Crusades in which you were humiliated by the hands of the Mujahideen, feeing to your home in great silence and disgrace. If the Americans do not respond, then their fate will be that of the Soviets who fed from Afghanistan to deal with their military defeat, political breakup, ideological downfall, and economic bankruptcy.
This is our message to the Americans, as an answer to theirs. Do they now know why we fight them and over which form of ignorance, by the permission of Allah, we shall be victorious?
Praise be to Allah who created the creation for his worship and commanded them to be just and permitted the wronged one to retaliate against the oppressor in kind. To proceed: Peace be upon he who follows the guidance: People of America this talk of mine is for you and concerns the ideal way to prevent another Manhattan, and deals with the war and its causes and results.
Before I begin, I say to you that security is an indispensable pillar of human life and that free men do not forfeit their security, contrary to Bush's claim that we hate freedom. 
If so, then let him explain to us why we don't strike for example - Sweden? And we know restore freedom to our nation, just as you lay waste to our nation. So shall we lay waste to yours.
No one except a dumb thief plays with the security of others and then makes himself believe he will be secure. Whereas thinking people, when disaster strikes, make it their priority to look for its causes, in order to prevent it happening again.
But I am amazed at you. Even though we are in the fourth year after the events of September 11th, Bush is still engaged in distortion, deception and hiding from you the real causes. And thus, the reasons are still there for a repeat of what occurred.
So I shall talk to you about the story behind those events and shall tell you truthfully about the moments in which the decision was taken, for you to consider.
I say to you, Allah knows that it had never occurred to us to strike the towers. But after it became unbearable and we witnessed the oppression and tyranny of the American/Israeli coalition against our people in Palestine and Lebanon, it came to my mind.
The events that affected my soul in a direct way started in 1982 when America permitted the Israelis to invade Lebanon and the American Sixth Fleet helped them in that. This bombardment began and many were killed and injured and others were terrorised and displaced.
I couldn't forget those moving scenes, blood and severed limbs, women and children sprawled everywhere. Houses destroyed along with their occupants and high rises demolished over their residents, rockets raining down on our home without mercy.
The situation was like a crocodile meeting a helpless child, powerless except for his screams. Does the crocodile understand a conversation that doesn't include a weapon?
And the whole world saw and heard but it didn't respond.
In those difficult moments many hard-to-describe ideas bubbled in my soul, but in the end they produced an intense feeling of rejection of tyranny, and gave birth to a strong resolve to punish the oppressors.
And as I looked at those demolished towers in Lebanon, it entered my mind that we should punish the oppressor in kind and that we should destroy towers in America in order that they taste some of what we tasted and so that they be deterred from killing our women and children.
And that day, it was confirmed to me that oppression and the intentional killing of innocent women and children is a deliberate American policy. Destruction is freedom and democracy, while resistance is terrorism and intolerance.
This means the oppressing and embargoing to death of millions as Bush Sr did in Iraq in the greatest mass slaughter of children mankind has ever known, and it means the throwing of millions of pounds of bombs and explosives at millions of children - also in Iraq - as Bush Jr did, in order to remove an old agent and replace him with a new puppet to assist in the pilfering of Iraq's oil and other outrages.
So with these images and their like as their background, the events of September 11th came as a reply to those great wrongs, should a man be blamed for defending his sanctuary?
Is defending oneself and punishing the aggressor in kind, objectionable terrorism? If it is such, then it is unavoidable for us.
This is the message which I sought to communicate to you in word and deed, repeatedly, for years before September 11th.
And you can read this, if you wish, in my interview with Scott in Time magazine in 1996, or with Peter Arnett on CNN in 1997, or my meeting with John Weiner in 1998.
You can observe it practically, if you wish, in Kenya and Tanzania and in Aden. And you can read it in my interview with Abdul Bari Atwan, as well as my interviews with Robert Fisk. The latter is one of your compatriots and co-religionists and I consider him to be neutral.
So are the pretenders of freedom at the White House and the channels controlled by them able to run an interview with him? So that he may relay to the American people what he has understood from us to be the reasons for our fight against you?
If you were to avoid these reasons, you will have taken the correct path that will lead America to the security that it was in before September 11th. This concerned the causes of the war.
As for it's results, they have been, by the grace of Allah, positive and enormous, and have, by all standards, exceeded all expectations. This is due to many factors, chief among them, that we have found it difficult to deal with the Bush administration in light of the resemblance it bears to the regimes in our countries, half of which are ruled by the military and the other half which are ruled by the sons of kings and presidents.
Our experience with them is lengthy, and both types are replete with those who are characterised by pride, arrogance, greed and misappropriation of wealth. This resemblance began after the visits of Bush Sr to the region.
At a time when some of our compatriots were dazzled by America and hoping that these visits would have an effect on our countries, all of a sudden he was affected by those monarchies and military regimes, and became envious of their remaining decades in their positions, to embezzle the public wealth of the nation without supervision or accounting.
So he took dictatorship and suppression of freedoms to his son and they named it the Patriot Act, under the pretence of fighting terrorism. In addition, Bush sanctioned the installing of sons as state governors, and didn't forget to import expertise in election fraud from the region's presidents to Florida to be made use of in moments of difficulty.
All that we have mentioned has made it easy for us to provoke and bait this administration. All that we have to do is to send two mujahidin to the furthest point east to raise a piece of cloth on which is written al-Qaida, in order to make the generals race there to cause America to suffer human, economic, and political losses without their achieving for it anything of note other than some benefits for their private companies.
This is in addition to our having experience in using guerrilla warfare and the war of attrition to fight tyrannical superpowers, as we, alongside the mujahidin, bled Russia for 10 years, until it went bankrupt and was forced to withdraw in defeat. 
All Praise is due to Allah. So we are continuing this policy in bleeding America to the point of bankruptcy. Allah willing, and nothing is too great for Allah.
That being said, those who say that al-Qaida has won against the  administration in the White House or that the administration has lost in this war have not been precise, because when one scrutinises the results, one cannot say that al-Qaida is the sole factor in achieving those spectacular gains.
Rather, the policy of the White House that demands the opening of war fronts to keep busy their various corporations - whether they be working in the field of arms or oil or reconstruction - has helped al-Qaida to achieve these enormous results.
And so it has appeared to some analysts and diplomats that the White House and us are playing as one team towards the economic goals of the United States, even if the intentions differ.
And it was to these sorts of notions and their like that the British diplomat and others were referring in their lectures at the Royal Institute of International Affairs. [When they pointed out that] for example, al-Qaida spent $500,000 on the event, while America, in the incident and its aftermath, lost - according to the lowest estimate - more than $500 billion.
Meaning that every dollar of al-Qaida defeated a million dollars by the permission of Allah, besides the loss of a huge number of jobs.
As for the size of the economic deficit, it has reached record astronomical numbers estimated to total more than a trillion dollars.
And even more dangerous and bitter for America is that the mujahidin recently forced Bush to resort to emergency funds to continue the fight in Afghanistan and Iraq, which is evidence of the success of the bleed-until-bankruptcy plan - with Allah's permission.
It is true that this shows that al-Qaida has gained, but on the other hand, it shows that the Bush administration has also gained, something of which anyone who looks at the size of the contracts acquired by the shady Bush administration-linked mega-corporations, like Halliburton and its kind, will be convinced. And it all shows that the real loser is ... you.
It is the American people and their economy. And for the record, we had agreed with the Commander-General Muhammad Ataa, Allah have mercy on him, that all the operations should be carried out within 20 minutes, before Bush and his administration notice.
It never occurred to us that the commander-in-chief of the American armed forces would abandon 50,000 of his citizens in the twin towers to face those great horrors alone, the time when they most needed him.
But because it seemed to him that occupying himself by talking to the little girl about the goat and its butting was more important than occupying himself with the planes and their butting of the skyscrapers, we were given three times the period required to execute the operations - all praise is due to Allah.
And it's no secret to you that the thinkers and perceptive ones from among the Americans warned Bush before the war and told him: "All that you want for securing America and removing the weapons of mass destruction - assuming they exist - is available to you, and the nations of the world are with you in the inspections, and it is in the interest of America that it not be thrust into an unjustified war with an unknown outcome."
But the darkness of the black gold blurred his vision and insight, and he gave priority to private interests over the public interests of America.
So the war went ahead, the death toll rose, the American economy bled, and Bush became embroiled in the swamps of Iraq that threaten his future. He fits the saying "like the naughty she-goat who used her hoof to dig up a knife from under the earth".
So I say to you, over 15,000 of our people have been killed and tens of thousands injured, while more than a thousand of you have been killed and more than 10,000 injured. And Bush's hands are stained with the blood of all those killed from both sides, all for the sake of oil and keeping their private companies in business.
Be aware that it is the nation who punishes the weak man when he causes the killing of one of its citizens for money, while letting the powerful one get off, when he causes the killing of more than 1000 of its sons, also for money.
And the same goes for your allies in Palestine. They terrorise the women and children, and kill and capture the men as they lie sleeping with their families on the mattresses, that you may recall that for every action, there is a reaction.
Finally, it behoves you to reflect on the last wills and testaments of the thousands who left you on the 11th as they gestured in despair. They are important testaments, which should be studied and researched.
Among the most important of what I read in them was some prose in their gestures before the collapse, where they say: "How mistaken we were to have allowed the White House to implement its aggressive foreign policies against the weak without supervision."
It is as if they were telling you, the people of America: "Hold to account those who have caused us to be killed, and happy is he who learns from others' mistakes."
And among that which I read in their gestures is a verse of poetry. "Injustice chases its people, and how unhealthy the bed of tyranny."
As has been said: "An ounce of prevention is better than a pound of cure."
And know that: "It is better to return to the truth than persist in error." And that the wise man doesn't squander his security, wealth and children for the sake of the liar in the White House.
In conclusion, I tell you in truth, that your security is not in the hands of Kerry, nor Bush, nor al-Qaida. No.
Your security is in your own hands. And every state that doesn't play with our security has automatically guaranteed its own security.
And Allah is our Guardian and Helper, while you have no Guardian or Helper. All peace be upon he who follows the Guidance.
